A ‘spot’ of hope: Chital returns to Faridabad Aravalis



A ‘spot’ of hope: Chital returns to Faridabad AravalisIpsita Pati /  Aug 22, 2025, 03:07 ISTShareAA+Text SizeSmallMediumLarge  Gurgaon: A spotted deer — or chital — with its distinctive russet-brown coat and white spots, was observed near Badkhal lake in the Faridabad Aravalis by forest department officials on Thursday. This sighting is believed to be the first recorded appearance of this species in the district, sparking hope and excitement within the wildlife community.Historically, the chital roamed freely across the Aravalis, stretching from Gurgaon to the Delhi Ridge. However, the rapid urbanisation of the 1980s and 1990s — fuelled by mining, real estate expansion, and deforestation — fragmented their habitats, pushing them into core forest zones like the Asola-Bhatti wildlife sanctuary. A 2017 Wildlife Institute of India (WII) survey of Haryana's Aravalis reported a significant decline in wildlife population, including that of the spotted deer, due to habitat loss and fragmentation.According to officials, this is the first confirmed sighting of a spotted deer in the Aravalis in recent records. Vivek Saxena, principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife), said, "We do not have data on the last sighting of chital in the Aravalis, but this sighting definitely shows that habitat improvements helped wildlife return to the region."You Can Also Check: Gurgaon AQI | Weather in Gurgaon | Bank Holidays in Gurgaon | Public Holidays in Gurgaon | Gold Rates Today in Gurgaon | Silver Rates Today in GurgaonThe sighting underscores the significance of green spaces at the urban fringe. Badkhal lake is situated at the edge of the Southern Aravali Ridge, which connects to the larger Delhi Ridge ecology and links with areas like the Asola-Bhatti sanctuary, an essential corridor for wildlife in this region."Wildlife, when given undisturbed green spaces, sometimes ventures back into areas we might consider too crowded. This visit could indicate that the wildlife corridor is active or that native habitat is gradually reclaiming ground. Either way, it serves as a subtle reminder of the broader environmental threads still weaving through our daily lives," said wildlife biologist Sumit Dookia.If sightings like this become more frequent, experts suggested it could be time to consider restoring or strengthening habitat links, including corridors between Asola and Sarika, where the spotted deer population is currently active."Seeing a spotted deer in Faridabad is a positive sign. It shows that even small patches of forest and wetlands can support wildlife if they are protected. What's crucial now is to ensure these green spaces remain connected so animals can move safely across the Aravalis," said wildlife expert Sunil Harsana. Stay updated with the latest local news from your city on Times of India (TOI). Check upcoming bank holidays, public holidays, and current gold rates and silver prices in your area.About the AuthorIpsita PatiIpsita Pati is an environment journalist with over a decade of experience, currently reporting for The Times of India. She covers climate change, land use, and green laws, with a focus on regulatory accountability. Her work highlights the environmental implications of policy decisions and development on ground.Read More

Record EU wildfires burnt more than 1 million hectares in 2025: AFP analysis

Wildfires have so far ravaged more than one million hectares (2.5 million acres)analysis of data from the European Forest Fire Information System (EFFIS). This calculation is based on a total compiled by AFP from estimates by country by EFFIS, at a time when Spain and Portugal are still battling wildfires.

Wildfires have so far ravaged more than one million hectares (2.5 million acres) in the European Union in 2025, a record since statistics began in 2006, according to an AFP analysis of data from the European Forest Fire Information System (EFFIS).Surpassing the annual record of 988,524 hectares burnt in 2017, the figure reached 1,015,731 hectares by midday Thursday, representing an area larger than Cyprus.This calculation is based on a total compiled by AFP from estimates by country by EFFIS, at a time when Spain and Portugal are still battling wildfires.Four countries in the European Union -- Spain, Cyprus, Germany, and Slovakia -- have already experienced their worst year in two decades of existing data. Spain is struggling with numerous fires in the west of the country, which have claimed four lives. By far it is the most affected EU country by fires, with more than 400,000 hectares burnt, accounting for nearly 40 percent of the EU total. Portugal, which holds the EU record of 563,530 hectares burnt in 2017, is the second-most affected EU country. It has never had an area of this size (nearly 274,000 hectares) burnt as of August 21. Romania follows with 126,000 hectares while in France, 35,600 hectares of forest have been reduced to ashes, mostly in the Aude region, which was ravaged by a massive fire in early August. These calculations by EFFIS, a component of the European climate monitor Copernicus, only take into account fires that have burnt areas of at least 30 hectares.

Antarctic ice loss could have 'catastrophic' impact



Antarctic ice loss could have 'catastrophic' impactDeutsche Welle /  Aug 21, 2025, 12:38 ISTShareAA+Text SizeSmallMediumLarge AI image Scientists on Wednesday warned that abrupt and potentially irreversible changes are occurring in Antarctica. They said the changes, which are driven by climate change, could lead to "catastrophic consequences for generations."The research was published in the journal Nature. It sought to describe the interlocking effects of global warming on the Antarctic, the frozen continent at the planet's South Pole.The "overwhelming evidence of a regime shift in sea ice" means that, on current trends, Antarctica could essentially become ice free in summer sooner than the Arctic, the study found.This will speed up warming in the region and beyond, and could push some marine species toward extinction."Antarctic sea ice may actually be one of those tipping points in the Earth's system," said the study's lead author Nerilie Abram, a former professor at the Australian National University (ANU) and now chief scientist at the Australian Antarctic Division.The study warns that curbing global carbon dioxide emissions would reduce the risk of major changes in the Antarctic but still may not prevent them."Once we start losing Antarctic sea ice, we set in train this self-perpetuating process," Abram said. "Even if we stabilize the climate, we are committed to still losing Antarctic sea ice over many centuries to come."What did the study say?Researchers gathered data from observations, ice cores, and ship logbooks to chart long-term changes in the area of sea ice.A "rapid and substantial slowdown" of the currents has already begun."This would lead to widespread climate and ecosystem impacts," ranging from an intensification of global warming to a decrease in the ocean's capacity to absorb CO2, the study reported.Will it affect wildlife?Some 90% of the heat generated by manmade global warming is soaked up by oceans.Since 2014, sea ice has retreated on average 120 kilometers (75 miles) from the continent's shoreline. Loss of ice is harming wildlife, including emperor penguins, who breed on the ice, and krill, which feed below it.And warming waters will further reduce phytoplankton populations that draw down vast quantities of carbon from the atmosphere, the study reported.

Spain wildfires burn record territory this year: Monitor

Deadly wildfires ravaging Spain have burnt the equivalent of nearly half a million football fields this year, setting a new record for the country, a European monitor said Monday. Portugal set the European record of 563,000 hectares scorched in 2017, when 119 people were killed.

Deadly wildfires ravaging Spain have burnt the equivalent of nearly half a million football fields this year, setting a new record for the country, a European monitor said Monday.The fires have so far burnt more than 343,000 hectares (848,000 acres), according to data from the European Forest Fire Information System (Effis), surpassing the record of 306,000 hectares for the same period in 2022.Portugal set the European record of 563,000 hectares scorched in 2017, when 119 people were killed. The country has already seen 216,000 hectares burnt in 2025, according to Effis, which has been gathering data for two decades. Spain's fires this year have been focused on the northwest regions of Galicia and Castile and Leon, and have claimed four lives.

Watch: Floods batter Pakistan; homes swamped, roads submerged

Devastating flash floods in Pakistan have claimed at least 657 lives, including many children, with Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province being the hardest hit. Entire villages have been wiped out, mass burials are underway, and hundreds remain missing as rescue efforts continue amidst warnings of more torrential rains. The scale of destruction is immense, with eyewitnesses recounting homes and vehicles swept away.

Devastating flash floods in Pakistan have claimed at least 657 lives, including many children, with Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province being the hardest hit. Entire villages have been wiped out, mass burials are underway, and hundreds remain missing as rescue efforts continue amidst warnings of more torrential rains. The scale of destruction is immense, with eyewitnesses recounting homes and vehicles swept away.  NEW DELHI: Entire villages have been wiped out and mass burials are taking place as flash floods wreak havoc across Pakistan, leaving at least 340 people dead and hundreds missing, news agency AFP reported. Officials and eyewitnesses described scenes of large-scale devastation, with homes, shops and vehicles swept away in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KP) province, the hardest-hit region.Meanwhile, Pakistan’s Prime Minister’s coordinator for KP affairs, Ikhtiar Wali Khan, warned the real toll could be far higher. “Entire villages have been wiped out. In Buner's Chagharzi area, massive destruction has taken place, while the village of Bashoni has completely disappeared from the map,” he told ARY News. Expressing fear that deaths in Dir alone could exceed 1,000, he added, “Mass burials are taking place. I have returned from Buner with a heavy heart after witnessing this disaster with my own eyes.”According to Pakistan’s National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), torrential monsoon rains, flash floods, and landslides since June 26 have killed at least 657 people, including 171 children and 94 women, and injured 929. KP province alone has reported 390 deaths.PollShould international aid be prioritized for the flood victims in Pakistan?Yes, immediate aid is essentialNo, local resources should be utilized firstRescue workers continue to search for survivors, but officials admit hopes are fading. In Buner district, more than 150 people remain missing, with “10 to 12 entire villages” partially buried, according to local authorities. “The chances of those buried under the debris surviving are very slim,” said Bilal Ahmad Faizi of KP’s rescue agency.Eyewitnesses recalled the horror as floodwaters swept away everything in their path. “We saw all the houses, buildings, and vehicles being swept away like pieces of wood. When we looked down from the mountain, our home was gone,” said Suleman Khan, a schoolteacher who lost 25 relatives in Buner.Officials say the devastation is on par with past climate disasters in Pakistan. The government has declared several mountainous districts disaster-hit, while warnings of more torrential rains in the coming days raise fears of further destruction.About the AuthorTOI News DeskThe TOI News Desk comprises a dedicated and tireless team of journalists who operate around the clock to deliver the most current and comprehensive news and updates to the readers of The Times of India worldwide. With an unwavering commitment to excellence in journalism, our team is at the forefront of gathering, verifying, and presenting breaking news, in-depth analysis, and insightful reports on a wide range of topics. The TOI News Desk is your trusted source for staying informed and connected to the ever-evolving global landscape, ensuring that our readers are equipped with the latest developments that matter most."Read More

Cloudburst in Kathua triggers landslide, flash floods: 7 dead, trains disrupted, CM announces ex-gratia – top developments

A devastating cloudburst in Jammu and Kashmir's Kathua district has claimed seven lives, triggering landslides and flash floods. The deluge washed away roads, damaged homes, and disrupted train services on the Jammu-Pathankot line. Rescue operations are underway, with the Army, NDRF, and SDRF assisting victims.

A devastating cloudburst in Jammu and Kashmir's Kathua district has claimed seven lives, triggering landslides and flash floods. The deluge washed away roads, damaged homes, and disrupted train services on the Jammu-Pathankot line. Rescue operations are underway, with the Army, NDRF, and SDRF assisting victims.  NEW DELHI: A cloudburst in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kathua district has left at least seven people dead and several others injured, triggering landslides, flash floods and large-scale disruption. The incident, which occurred late Saturday night in Jodh Ghati village, washed away roads, damaged homes, and forced authorities into urgent rescue and relief operations.Train services along the vital Jammu-Pathankot line have also been suspended as rising water levels crossed danger marks on a key railway bridge. Helicopter evacuations have been launched, while multiple agencies including the Army, NDRF, SDRF and police are on the ground to restore connectivity and assist victims.Here are the top developments:Death toll rises to seven in KathuaOfficials confirmed that seven people have died in two separate incidents of cloudburst and landslide in Kathua. Five casualties occurred in Jodh Ghati following flash floods triggered by the overnight downpour, while two more died after a landslide in Janglote.Jammu Divisional Commissioner Ramesh Kumar said, “There was heavy rain in Kathua since last night... Seven people have died due to the landslide. Rescue operations are ongoing... Those who died due to the landslide, their bodies have been retrieved.” Rescue teams are still combing through debris and flood-hit areas amid fears of more missing persons. Helicopters were pressed into service due to washed-away roads and villages cut off from access.Train traffic disrupted on Jammu-Pathankot lineRail connectivity has been badly affected with the suspension of up-line train movement between Kathua and Budhi. Senior Divisional Commercial Manager, Jammu Railway Division, Uchit Singhal, said: “Due to heavy rains, water is flowing above the danger level through bridge number 43 between Kathua-Budhi. In view of this, temporarily till the water level subsides, up-line movement has been suspended, and in the meantime, up trains are being moved via a temporary single line through the down line track.” Villages cut off after flash floods and landslidesThe cloudburst snapped access to Jodh Ghati village, where floodwaters swept through homes and agricultural fields, leaving families stranded. Several connecting roads were washed away, and a bridge collapsed, worsening the situation. Deputy Commissioner Kathua Rajesh Sharma confirmed that rescue operations are underway and that stranded people are being shifted to safer areas. Local police reported that a station building in Kathua had also been damaged. Rescue operations led by Army and NDRFThe Indian Army, NDRF, SDRF, police and BRO have been deployed in full strength across Kathua. Heavy machinery has been brought in to fragment massive boulders that rolled down into residential areas. Inspector General of Police, Jammu Zone, Bhim Sen Tuti, said, “Boulders had fallen here which needed to be fragmented... Heavy machinery has been called for that. With the help of BRO, they are being fragmented here. These boulders are being removed by using explosives wherever needed, and bodies have been recovered from beneath them.”Helicopter evacuation for injured victimsUnion minister Jitendra Singh confirmed that helicopter services were arranged to shift injured people to nearby hospitals. In his social media post, Singh wrote, “Helicopter services have been arranged for shifting the injured to appropriate hospitals. 6 injured have been airlifted for hospitalisation in Mamoon, Pathankot, which was found to be relatively nearer destination.” DIG Police Shiv Kumar Sharma and his team are camping at the site and coordinating airlifts. Centre closely monitoring situation, says Amit ShahUnion home minister Amit Shah assured full support from the Central government. In a post on X, Shah wrote, “Spoke with the Lieutenant Governor and Chief Minister of Jammu and Kashmir regarding the cloudburst in Kathua. Relief and rescue operations are being carried out by the local administration, and NDRF teams have also been rushed to the site. Assured every support from the Modi government. We stand firmly behind our sisters and brothers of J&K.” LG Manoj Sinha calls tragedy 'mind-numbing'Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha expressed grief over the loss of lives. In his message on X, he wrote: “Deeply anguished by the loss of lives in the devastating rain-triggered landslides in several areas of Kathua. The tragedy is mind-numbing. Briefed Hon’ble Union Home Minister Sh. Amit Shah Ji on rescue and relief operations by the army, NDRF, SDRF, police & administration.” CM Omar Abdullah announces ex-gratia reliefChief minister Omar Abdullah conveyed condolences and directed immediate assistance for affected families. A statement from his office said Rs 2 lakh would be given for each deceased, Rs 1 lakh for severely injured, and Rs 50,000 for those with minor injuries. Compensation has also been announced for damaged homes: Rs 1 lakh for fully damaged houses, Rs 50,000 for severely damaged houses, and Rs 25,000 for partially damaged houses. “The Chief Minister has directed the administration to carry out immediate relief, rescue and evacuation measures to ensure the safety and support of affected families,” the statement said.Repeated cloudburst disasters in J&KThe Kathua disaster comes just three days after a cloudburst in Kishtwar’s Chisoti village killed 60 people and injured over 100. Experts warn that frequent extreme weather in J&K is linked to changing rainfall patterns and climate pressures in the Himalayan region. Officials say the back-to-back incidents highlight the need for stronger disaster preparedness and better drainage infrastructure. While the state government has sought central assistance, locals in Kathua have urged long-term flood protection measures. This includes improved embankments, real-time weather alerts, and a review of building norms in vulnerable areas.Connectivity and services slowly being restoredAuthorities are now focused on restoring essential services, including power, water and road links. In Kishtwar, where floods occurred earlier, officials said blasting of boulders was undertaken to clear blocked roads. Rope bridges are being built to reconnect cut-off villages in Kathua. “The power supply and water supply have been restored. A bridge is being built here with the help of the Army... All the passengers stranded in Machail were safely evacuated yesterday,” said Divisional Commissioner Ramesh Kumar. About the AuthorTOI News DeskThe TOI News Desk comprises a dedicated and tireless team of journalists who operate around the clock to deliver the most current and comprehensive news and updates to the readers of The Times of India worldwide. With an unwavering commitment to excellence in journalism, our team is at the forefront of gathering, verifying, and presenting breaking news, in-depth analysis, and insightful reports on a wide range of topics. The TOI News Desk is your trusted source for staying informed and connected to the ever-evolving global landscape, ensuring that our readers are equipped with the latest developments that matter most."Read More

A cruel summer as record wildfires scorch Europe

Wildfires continue to test firefighters and locals across Europe as droughts and heatwaves turn regions into tinderboxes. The data for 2025 alone is a sign of things to come.

Wildfires continue to test firefighters and locals across Europe as droughts and heatwaves turn regions into tinderboxes. The data for 2025 alone is a sign of things to come. A cruel summer as record wildfires scorch Europe Wildfires continue to burn across the south of Europe amid record-breaking summer heatwaves in many fire-prone regions. In some places, these fires have been exacerbated by wet spring months, which have helped vegetation growth capable of catching alight with ease during a dry summer.Already, an area equivalent to 1.5 times the size of Luxembourg — roughly 438,568 hectares — has burned across Europe in 2025. That figure is almost three times the size of fire damaged caused up to the same point in 2024.It comes as some parts of southern Europe suffer through multiple 40-degree (104 Fahrenheit) days, and prolonged heatwaves lasting a fortnight.The current summer has been described as the worst for wildfires in two decades.Where are the fires burning? What is the situation right now?"We're seeing extreme temperatures in large parts of Europe, records being broken of 40 degrees in many places," said Julie Berckmans, a climate scientist at the European Environmental Agency."Southern France, Spain, Greece, Turkey, Belgium, Netherlands, UK, are all hitting high temperatures [and] massive wildfires in Spain, Portugal, France, Greece, Turkey, Albania."In Spain, those fires have burned through an area the size of London already.Portugal is fighting its own fires, with around four thousand firefighters currently active across seven active sites. It has also been forced to request help from the European Union's firefighting forces.An even greater number of firefighters has been mobilized in Greece, which is battling 20 blazes during this peak fire season.Deaths have occurred in Spain, Portugal, Montenegro and Italy from fires and heat-related events this summer.It has been a severe fire seasonEurope uses data from its Copernicus satellite fleet to monitor fire activity, and collates the data via the European Forest Fires Information System (EFFIS).A substantial amount of fire damage in 2025 has already occured.More than 250,000 hectares more of land has burnt than the same time in 2024.There have more than 1,600 fires across Europe, compared to just under 1,100 last year.And new regions are also experiencing greater than usual fire activity.Spain, for instance, has seen twice as much of its territory burned-through compared to the 2006-2024 average. Romania has lost four times as much land to fires this year.Cyprus has been badly impacted. It could usually expect to see around 0.32% of its landmass burned each year. Already in 2025 it's 2.5% — nearly eight times more.But it's also the number of fires that is concerning. France has had nearly three times as many fires as average amid what has been the worst wildfire season for its southern regions in decades.More to come...The fallout of severe wildfires goes beyond land loss or human fatalities. Damage to ecosystems through vegetation loss, health impacts through smoke inhalation, and economic decline are all consequences of widespread fire events."It's about €2.5 billion [$2.9 billion] of damage lost every year in the EU," Berckmans told DW. "45,000 people on average were displaced due to wildfires from 2008 to 2023."The European Environment Agency's first climate risk assessment, published in 2024, found that urgent action is required to address the critical risk wildfires will pose to populations and infastructure and biodiversity in southern Europe."Wildfires are an urgent risk to address," said Berckmans. "It's also a major risk that needs more action now in the rest of Europe."As European fall approaches, the number of fires and the damage they cause should slow. However forecasting the length of fire danger season, and the behavior of fires themselves, is becoming more difficult.Climate change will not only generate warmer and drier conditions across southern Europe, it will also begin to change other dynamic factors.Faster and more volatile wind systems, for instance, will increase the challenge for fire management personnel to predict how blazes will behave. That puts the lives of emergency workers and civilians at greater risk."Picture a fire so fierce, so fast, and so unpredictable it seems alive, capable of reshaping the weather around it and leaping across kilometers in a heartbeat," said Antonio Lopez, an expert in wildfires at the University of Seville, Spain.

India is ahead in clean energy commitments, achieves 2030 goal five years early

Marking Independence Day celebrations, the Prime Minister announced and hailed the achievement as a pivotal step towards an Atmanirbhar Bharat in the energy sector, underscoring the country's transformation from a fossil-fuel-dependent importer to a global clean energy leader.

Marking Independence Day celebrations, the Prime Minister announced and hailed the achievement as a pivotal step towards an Atmanirbhar Bharat in the energy sector, underscoring the country's transformation from a fossil-fuel-dependent importer to a global clean energy leader."When the world today expresses concern over global warming, I wish to tell the world that Bharat has resolved to achieve 50 per cent clean energy by 2030. That was our target for 2030. Look at the capability of my countrymen, look at their determination to fulfil the resolve of making Bharat developed--we achieved the 50 per cent clean energy target in 2025 itself, five years ahead of schedule. This is because we are as sensitive towards the world as we are responsible towards nature," PM Modi said on the occasion of 79th Independence.At COP26 held in 2021, India committed to an ambitious five-part "Panchamrit" pledge.This included reaching 500 GW of non-fossil electricity capacity, generating half of all energy requirements from renewables, and reducing emissions by 1 billion tonnes by 2030. India also aims to reduce the emissions intensity of GDP by 45 per cent and achieve net-zero emissions by 2070.According to the latest government data, India added a record 29.52 gigawatts (GW) of renewable capacity in 2024-25, taking total installed renewable energy (RE) capacity to 234.24 GW (excluding nuclear), up from 198.75 GW last year.Solar energy leads the charge, with installed capacity skyrocketing from just 2.82 GW in 2014 to 116.24 GW today, now accounting for nearly half of India's total RE capacity.Wind power follows at 51.67 GW, while large and small hydro contribute 54.72 GW combined. Biopower has also grown to 11.59 GW over the past decade.India now ranks 4th globally in total RE capacity, 3rd in solar power, and 4th in wind energy, boasting the world's fastest-growing renewable program.The clean energy surge has been powered by a suite of ambitious government reforms and programs.The PM-Surya Ghar: Muft Bijli Yojana, with a Rs 75,021 crore outlay, aims to provide free solar electricity to one crore households.As of August 14, 2025, over 17.24 lakh households have benefitted, with subsidies worth Rs 9,841.77 crore released. The scheme also introduced Model Solar Villages to promote decentralised clean power at the grassroots level.In agriculture, the PM-KUSUM scheme has installed over 8.53 lakh solar pumps, replacing diesel-powered systems and cutting an estimated 6.6 million tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions.Beyond solar, India is expanding in wind, hydro, bioenergy, green hydrogen, and nuclear power. Offshore wind projects, backed by a Rs 7,453 crore viability gap funding scheme, are set to add 1 GW capacity off Gujarat and Tamil Nadu.The National Green Hydrogen Mission, with a Rs 19,744 crore budget, targets 5 million metric tonnes (MMT) annual production by 2030, along with 125 GW of new RE, Rs 8 lakh crore in investments, and 6 lakh jobs. Hydrogen hubs have been identified in Kandla, Paradip, and Tuticorin.In the nuclear sector, operational capacity has grown from 4,780 MW in 2014 to 8,780 MW across 25 reactors, with a remarkable 87 per cent plant load factor in 2024-25. Ten new reactors are already functional, and capacity is set to increase tenfold by 2047."The result is a virtuous cycle: local manufacturing creates jobs and resilience, competitive tariffs make clean energy affordable, and inclusive programs bring every citizen into the transition. As we look ahead to 2030 and beyond, India is not just meeting global commitments -- it is setting a new template for how a nation can grow, decarbonise, and remain self-reliant. In the journey from energy dependence to energy leadership, the momentum is unmistakable, and the destination is clear: an Atmanirbhar Bharat, powered by its own clean, green energy," the government said today, in a factsheet.With five years gained on its clean energy target, India is now firmly on track to meet, and potentially exceed, its 500 GW non-fossil capacity goal by 2030, positioning itself as a decisive force in the global fight against climate change. (ANI)

150 species saved in England, but 'time running out' to halt decline

A multi-million pound conservation programme in England helped save 150 struggling species but "time is running out" to halt the decline, the head of Natural England, which led the initiative, said Wednesday. But time is running out fast," he added.

A multi-million pound conservation programme in England helped save 150 struggling species but "time is running out" to halt the decline, the head of Natural England, which led the initiative, said Wednesday.The public body, responsible for protecting and enhancing England's natural environment, invested a £13 million ($17.6 million) grant in efforts to support animal and plant species such as water vole, oystercatcher, lady's slipper orchid, the hazel dormouse and Atlantic salmon. "From the Lizard Peninsula in Cornwall to Cumbria and Northumberland, 63 different projects involving 78 partners have transformed landscapes and supported the recovery of 150 species, many of which were on the brink of national extinction, through research, captive breeding, habitat creation, and conservation translocations," the body said in a statement released Wednesday.More than 15,000 individual animals and plants were translocated to expand species territories under the projects, which ran from August 2023 to March 2025. Notable successes include the reintroduction of black grouse to the North Yorkshire Moors, northern England, and the return of the large marsh grasshopper to the Norfolk Broads in east England after an 85-year absence. Despite the achievements, the chair of Natural England Tony Juniper warned more needed to be done. "A rising number of nature recovery projects, both large and small, are making a huge difference up and down the country," he said in the press release."We know we can turn round species decline and improve ecosystems with the right targeted actions, the drive and the funding. But time is running out fast," he added.Juniper called for more projects, more volunteers and more investment, particularly from the private sector.

Typhoon Podul intensifies as its near Taiwan

Typhoon Podul crossed southern Taiwan, prompting school and office closures due to heavy rain and potential agricultural damage. While no major damage was reported in Taiwan, one person is missing on the east coast. In China, coastal provinces evacuated around 15,000 residents as the storm moved towards the Taiwan Strait, impacting flights and regions south of Taipei.

Typhoon Podul crossed southern Taiwan, prompting school and office closures due to heavy rain and potential agricultural damage. While no major damage was reported in Taiwan, one person is missing on the east coast. In China, coastal provinces evacuated around 15,000 residents as the storm moved towards the Taiwan Strait, impacting flights and regions south of Taipei.  KAOHSIUNG: Thousands of people sheltered and fishermen secured their boats across storm-battered southern Taiwan on Wednesday as Typhoon Podul intensified on its approach to the island.The typhoon is packing wind speeds of 155 kilometres (96 miles) per hour at its centre and "is strengthening", Central Weather Administration (CWA) forecaster Lin Ting-yi told AFP.Podul is on track to hit lightly populated Taitung County at around noon (0400 GMT) before sweeping across the island and into the Taiwan Strait."We are worried about this typhoon," Kaohsiung fisherman Huang Wei told AFP as he used more ropes to tie down his boat and checked on other vessels."We had already made general typhoon preparations yesterday, but this morning I woke up and saw news reports that the typhoon has intensified to be as strong as the last, (Typhoon) Krathon," Huang said."Last time, the two boats behind us weren't tied properly and hit my boat."Krathon slammed into Kaohsiung in October, with wind gusts of 162kph. Podul has gusts of 191kph, Lin said. More than 5,500 people have been evacuated from their homes ahead of Podul, disaster officials said Wednesday, as the typhoon threatens to pound central and southern regions that are still recovering from storms last month.Mountainous areas of Kaohsiung City and neighbouring Pingtung County, as well as Hualien and Taitung counties, could see torrential rain, the CWA said.All domestic flights across the island of 23 million people have been cancelled, along with dozens of international journeys.Many ferry services have been suspended and businesses and schools across the south closed.Typhoon Danas, which hit Taiwan in early July, killed two people and injured hundreds as the storm dumped more than 500mm (about 20 inches) of rain across the south over a weekend.That was followed by torrential rain from July 28 to August 4, with some areas recording more than Taiwan's rainfall of 2.1 metres for 2024.The week of bad weather left five people dead, three missing, and 78 injured, a disaster official said previously.

Momentum sagging at UN plastic pollution treaty talks

Talks on forging a landmark treaty to combat the scourge of plastic pollution were stumbling Saturday, with progress slow and countries wildly at odds on how far the proposed agreement should go. The talks are mandated to look at the full life cycle of plastic, from production to pollution, but some countries are unhappy with such a wide scope.

Talks on forging a landmark treaty to combat the scourge of plastic pollution were stumbling Saturday, with progress slow and countries wildly at odds on how far the proposed agreement should go.The negotiations, which opened on Tuesday, have four working days left to strike a legally-binding instrument that would tackle the growing problem choking the environment.In a blunt mid-way assessment, talks chair Luis Vayas Valdivieso warned the 184 countries negotiating at the United Nations that they had to get shifting to get a deal."Progress made has not been sufficient," Vayas told delegates."A real push to achieve our common goal is needed," the Ecuadoran diplomat said, adding that Thursday was not a just deadline but "a date by which we must deliver."Some articles still have unresolved issues and show little progress towards reaching a common understanding," Vayas lamented.The key fracture is between countries that want to focus on waste management and others who want a more ambitious treaty that also cuts production and eliminates use of the most toxic chemicals.And with the talks relying on finding consensus, it has become a game of brinkmanship.A diplomatic source told reporters that many informal meetings had been scrambled together for Sunday's day off to try and break the deadlock."If nothing changes, we won't get there," the source added.Battle of the bracketsCountries have reconvened in Geneva after the failure of the supposedly fifth and final round of negotiations in Busan, South Korea in 2024.After four days of talks, the draft text has ballooned from 22 to 35 pages -- with the number of brackets in the text going up near five-fold to almost 1,500 as countries insert a blizzard of conflicting wishes and ideas.The talks are mandated to look at the full life cycle of plastic, from production to pollution, but some countries are unhappy with such a wide scope.Kuwait spoke up for the so-called Like-Minded Group -- a nebulous cluster of mostly oil-producing nations which rejects production limits and wants to focus on treating waste."Let us agree on what we can agree. Consensus must be the basis of all our decisions," Kuwait insisted.Nudging in the same direction, Saudi Arabia, speaking for the Arab Group, said the responsible way ahead was to start considering what bits of the text "may not make it to the final outcome due to irreconcilable divergence".But given how little is truly agreed on, Uruguay warned that consensus "cannot be used as a justification to not achieve our objectives".Eirik Lindebjerg, global plastics adviser for the World Wide Fund for Nature, told AFP that the Like-Minded Group's proposal was "another attempt to make it a waste management agreement", and to stifle talks on reducing the amount of plastic in circulation.Path through the fogThe UN Environment Programme is hosting the talks and swiftly called a press conference after the stock-take session.UNEP executive director Inger Andersen said a deal was "really within our grasp, even though today it might not look so"."Despite the fog of negotiations I'm really encouraged," she told reporters, insisting: "There is a pathway to success."Vayas added: "We need to accelerate. We need a better rhythm in this and we need to also work in such a way that it will be clear that we will deliver by the end."Afterwards, Bjorn Beeler, executive director at IPEN, a global network aimed at limiting toxic chemicals, told AFP: "This whole process has not been able to take decisions and is still collecting ideas. We're sleepwalking towards a cliff and if we don't wake up, we're falling off."'Profits from poisoning'Plastic pollution is so ubiquitous that microplastics have been found on the highest mountain peaks, in the deepest ocean trench and scattered throughout almost every part of the human body.More than 400 million tonnes of plastic are produced globally each year, half of which is for single-use items.Plastic production is set to triple by 2060.Panama's negotiator Juan Monterrey Gomez took the floor to slam those countries wanting to stop the treaty from encompassing the entire life cycle of plastic.He said microplastics "are in our blood, in our lungs and in the first cry of a new-born child. Our bodies are living proof of a system that profits from poisoning us". "We cannot recycle our way out of this crisis."

Climate heat extremes driving tropical bird decline: study

Tropical bird populations have plummeted not only due to deforestation but also extreme heat attributable to climate change, according to a study published on Monday in the journal Nature Ecology & Evolution.  Another study published in 2017 showed how some tropical hummingbirds are now forced to seek shade to regulate their temperature in extreme heat, cutting into the amount of time they can spend searching for life-sustaining nectar.

Tropical bird populations have plummeted not only due to deforestation but also extreme heat attributable to climate change, according to a study published on Monday in the journal Nature Ecology & Evolution. Intensifying temepratures caused a 25-38 percent reduction in tropical bird populations between 1950 and 2020, compared to a scenario without manmade global warming, scientists based in Europe and Australia reported. "The findings are pretty stark," lead author Maximilian Kotz, a researcher at the National Supercomputing Centre in Barcelona and the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research (PIK), told AFP.Bird populations in the tropics now face 30 days of heat extremes per year compared to three per year in the mid-20th century, he noted. "This has major consequences for how we think about biodiversity conservation," Kotz said by email. "Protecting pristine habitats is crucial, but without dealing with climate change it won't be enough for birds."Nearly half of all bird species are found in biodiversity-rich tropical regions. These often colourful animals perform essential services for ecosystems, such as dispersing plant seeds. Invasive species another threatBut birds living in these regions may already be "close to the limits" of their tolerance to high temperatures, which can cause heatstroke (hyperthermia) or dehydration. The overview study does not provide figures for individual species, but earlier literature is rich with examples of the devastating impact of rising temperatures.One documented the heat-related decline of birds in Panama, including the king quetzal, the red-crested quetzal, the two-coloured kingfisher and the aurora trogon. Another study published in 2017 showed how some tropical hummingbirds are now forced to seek shade to regulate their temperature in extreme heat, cutting into the amount of time they can spend searching for life-sustaining nectar. Extreme heat waves, which are becoming more frequent, represent a far greater threat than increases in average temperatures or rainfall, another result of human-induced climate change. Up to now, it has been assumed that the decline in bird populations worldwide was due mainly to other well-identified factors, especially habitat loss, pesticide use, hunting, and invasive species, especially snakes that snack on bird eggs and mosquitos carrying avian malaria. But the new findings "challenge the view that direct human pressures have so far been the dominant driver of impacts on bird populations compared to climate change in tropical regions," according to the authors. To reach this conclusion, they analysed observational data from more than 3,000 bird populations around the world and used statistical modelling to isolate the effects of extreme weather from other factors.The findings help complete the picture of tropical bird decline, noted Aimee Van Tatenhove, a post-doctoral fellow at Cornell University's Center for Avian Population Studies who was not involved in the study."Deforestation has an obvious impact -- trees are cut and habitat is destroyed," she told AFP. "We need long-term datasets like the authors used to understand how extreme temperatures impact avian populations.""This study is an important reminder that we need to continue examining different causes of population declines and apply those findings to conservation initiatives," she continued.

Turkey reports hottest July in 55 years



Turkey reports hottest July in 55 yearsAFP /  Aug 9, 2025, 15:59 ISTShareAA+Text SizeSmallMediumLarge  Turkey recorded its hottest July in 55 years, the environment ministry said Saturday.Temperatures recorded in 66 of the country's 220 weather stations showed an average rise of 1.9 degrees over the preceding years, the ministry said on X.The highest-ever recorded temperature of 50.5 C was also set near the end of July in Silopi, southeast Turkey. Silopi, a city in the Sirnak province, is located around 10 kilometres from the Iraq and Syrian borders. It shattered the previous national high of 49.5 C recorded in August 2023 in the western province of Eskisehir. Turkey has faced weeks of scorching heat along with several wildfires. Fourteen people lost their lives battling blazes last month in the western part of the country. Hundreds of people were evacuated on Friday in the northwest province of Canakkale, where the busy Dardanelles Strait was closed to maritime traffic due to two raging fires. The heatwave has also prompted fears of water shortages in some areas. The resort town of Cesme on the Aegean Sea has restricted tap water for residents and tourists between 11:00 pm to 6:00 am since July 25.

Fire in southern France burns 11,000 hectares, injures nine

A wildfire in southern France slowed overnight into Wednesday after injuring nine people and burning through 11,000 hectares of vegetation, local officials said.  One person was seriously burned and another injured, the prefecture said, adding that seven firefighters were also hurt.

A wildfire in southern France slowed overnight into Wednesday after injuring nine people and burning through 11,000 hectares of vegetation, local officials said. The blaze, which started on Tuesday afternoon, is still threatening several villages in the aude department, where 1,500 firefighters have been battling to extinguish it."The fire is advancing in an area where all the conditions are ripe for it to progress. We are monitoring the edges and the back of the fire to prevent flare-ups," said Lucie Roesch, secretary general of the qude prefecture.She said firefighters are expecting to receive aerial support at dawn, but warned "this fire will keep us busy for several days. It's a long-term operation".The fire's advance slowed overnight due to high humidity levels, she added.One person was seriously burned and another injured, the prefecture said, adding that seven firefighters were also hurt. Camping grounds and one village were partially evacuated, and several local roads have been closed."All of the Nation's resources are mobilised," French president Emmanuel Macron said on X, while calling on people to exercise "the utmost caution".The qude department has seen an increase in areas burnt in recent years, aggravated by low rainfall and the removal of vineyards, which used to help break the progression of fires.

Pacific algae invade Algeria beaches, pushing humans and fish away

At a beach near Algiers, brown algae native to the Pacific Ocean cover the golden sand,  posing a threat to ecosystems native to the area and their stench repelling swimmers at the peak of summer. The alga originates from temperate waters around Japan and the Korean peninsula in the northwest Pacific Ocean.

At a beach near Algiers, brown algae native to the Pacific Ocean cover the golden sand, posing a threat to ecosystems native to the area and their stench repelling swimmers at the peak of summer.Following a recent government call to help clear beaches swarmed by the seaweed species known scientifically as Rugulopteryx okamurae, several volunteers and charities have stepped in."When it washes up, we can't swim," said Salim Hemmedi, a 43-year-old vacationer at a beach in Sidi Fredj, where volunteers raked up heaps of the plant."We hope the situation will improve so that we can enjoy ourselves... and that children can swim in peace."The alga originates from temperate waters around Japan and the Korean peninsula in the northwest Pacific Ocean.It was first spotted in Algeria in late 2023, according to Lamia Bahbah, a lecturer and researcher at the National School of Marine Sciences and Coastal Planning.And lately, some have noted that it has been increasingly washed ashore.Youcef Segni, a marine engineer and biologist, said the algae proliferated at a significantly higher rate than in 2023 and 2024."They invade the habitats of other algae in the seabed, which leads to the disappearance of some species," he said, adding that it can also displace some native fish.Fast reproductionIn France, Spain and Portugal, the Rugulopteryx okamurae species has also been observed.Earlier this year, Spanish football club Real Betis introduced kits repurposed from seaweed to raise awareness about the issue.A 2023 study by the Marine Drugs journal said the alga's invasive character led to "a replacement of the native biota and an occupancy rate that reached almost 100 per cent in some locations" in Portugal.In Algeria, the plant has been spotted in at least three of the country's 14 coastal provinces, including the capital where 16 beaches are affected, authorities said."Are the waters suitable for swimming? Yes," said Environment Minister Nadjiba Djilali during the cleanup campaign, adding there were no records of the plant causing allergies.Researcher Bahbah said stopping its proliferation was "unfortunately impossible at this stage".She said the plant reproduces at a high rate, both sexually and asexually.The species can reproduce through fragmentation, meaning new individual algae can develop from fragmented pieces of other Rugulopteryx okamurae algae.The algae spread mainly by clinging to the hulls of boats, and the Mediterranean's moderate temperature favours the seaweed's fast reproduction."We are going to fight it," said Fella Zaboudj, a state engineer in marine sciences, adding that researchers were monitoring its spread, development and evolution.Zaboudj said research was also underway to determine whether the algae could be repurposed as fertiliser.

'Let's go fly a kite': Capturing wind for clean energy in Ireland

On Ireland's blustery western seaboard researchers are gleefully flying giant kites -- not for fun but in the hope of generating renewable electricity and sparking a "revolution" in wind energy. Ireland's wind energy sector has long been touted as full of potential.

On Ireland's blustery western seaboard researchers are gleefully flying giant kites -- not for fun but in the hope of generating renewable electricity and sparking a "revolution" in wind energy. Ireland's wind energy sector has long been touted as full of potential. AI image BANGOR: On Ireland's blustery western seaboard, researchers are gleefully flying giant kites, not for fun but in the hope of generating renewable electricity and sparking a "revolution" in wind energy."We use a kite to capture the wind and a generator at the bottom of it that captures the power," Padraic Doherty of Kitepower, the Dutch firm behind the venture, told AFP. At its test site in operation since September 2023 near the small town of Bangor Erris, the team transports the vast 60-square-metre (645,000-square-feet) kite from a hangar across the lunar-like bogland to a generator. The kite is then attached by a cable tether to the machine and acts like a "yo-yo or fishing reel", Doherty said."It gets cast out and flies up, the tether pulls it back in, over and over again, creating energy," he said, testing the kite's ropes and pulleys before a flight.The sparsely populated spot near the stormy Atlantic coast is the world's first designated airborne renewable energy test site. And although the idea is still small in scale, it could yet prove to be a mighty plan as Ireland seeks to cut its reliance on fossil fuels such as oil and gas."We are witnessing a revolution in wind energy," said Andrei Luca, operations head at Kitepower, a zero-emissions energy solutions spin-off from the Delft University of Technology."It took nearly 25 years for wind turbines to evolve from 30-kilowatt prototypes to megawatt scale, and decades to offshore wind farms we see today," he added.The system flies autonomously, driven by software developed at the university in the Netherlands, but Doherty acts as the kite's "pilot" on the ground, monitoring its flight path for efficiency. The kite flies up around 400 metres (1,300 feet) and reels in to about 190 metres, generating around 30 kilowatts for storage.The force spins "like a dynamo on a bike", Doherty said, adding that "it generates up to two and a half tonnes of force through each turn".The electricity is stored in batteries, similar to solar photovoltaic systems, with the kite currently able to fully charge a 336-kilowatt-hour (kWh) battery."That's a meaningful amount of energy, sufficient for powering a remote outpost, a small island, polar station, or even a construction site," Luca said."Add additional kites and we can power a bigger island."'Mobile, flexible'According to Doherty, a chief advantage of the kite system is its flexibility and swift start-up capability."We can set up in 24 hours and can bring it anywhere, it's super mobile, and doesn't need expensive, time- and energy-consuming turbine foundations to be built," he said. A kite system is "way less invasive on the landscape (than wind turbines), produces clean energy and doesn't need a supply chain of fuel to keep running", Luca added.During January's Storm Eowyn, which caused widespread and long-lasting power outages in Ireland, the system showed its value in Bangor Erris, according to Luca. "Paired with a battery, it provided uninterrupted electricity before, during and after the storm," he said. Ireland's wind energy sector has long been touted as full of potential.But progress on large-scale delivery of onshore and offshore turbines has been held up by planning delays and electricity grid capacity constraints.The Irish government has set ambitious targets for offshore wind energy to deliver 20 gigawatts of energy by 2040 and at least 37 gigawatts by 2050.In 2024, Irish wind farms provided around a third of the country's electricity according to Wind Energy Ireland (WEI), a lobby group for the sector. This compares to the UK, where, according to trade association RenewableUK, wind energy from the country's combined wind farms first reached 20 gigawatts in November 2022.The ability of airborne wind energy (AWE) systems to harness high-altitude winds with relatively low infrastructure requirements "makes them particularly suitable for remote, offshore or mobile applications," Mahdi Salari, an AWE researcher at University College Cork, told AFP.But he said Kitepower would face challenges on "regulation, safety, and system reliability". Such technology however could plug gaps in places where "land availability, costs or logistical constraints hinder the deployment of traditional wind turbines", Salari said.By the 2030s, he said: "I expect AWE to contribute meaningfully to diversified, flexible and distributed renewable energy networks".Discover stories of India’s leading eco-innovators at Ecopreneur Honours 2025

'Nothing goes to waste': Denmark zoo asks people to donate their pets to feed its predators; assures animals will be 'gently euthanized'

Aalborg Zoo in Denmark is now accepting unwanted small pets as donations to feed its predators. The zoo assures that donated animals like rabbits and guinea pigs will be humanely euthanized before being used as food. This initiative aims to mimic the natural food chain, promoting animal welfare and natural behaviour among captive carnivores.

Aalborg Zoo in Denmark is now accepting unwanted small pets as donations to feed its predators. The zoo assures that donated animals like rabbits and guinea pigs will be humanely euthanized before being used as food. This initiative aims to mimic the natural food chain, promoting animal welfare and natural behaviour among captive carnivores. (Ai generated image)  If you have a pet you can no longer keep, one zoo in Denmark is offering an unusual option.Aalborg Zoo is asking the public to donate small pets — not for rehoming, but to be used as food for its captive predators.Aalborg Zoo, located in northern Denmark, said in a Facebook post that the move is meant to mimic the natural food chain of animals housed there. The zoo says this effort supports “animal welfare and professional integrity,” and assures that any donated pets will be “gently euthanized” by trained staff.“If you have a healthy animal that needs to be given away for various reasons, feel free to donate it to us,” the post said.The zoo lists rabbits, guinea pigs, horses and chickens as examples of suitable donations.PollWhat do you think about Aalborg Zoo's practice of accepting pets for food for predators?Support it for animal welfareOppose it, find other solutionsOnce euthanised, the animals will be used as fodder for the zoo’s carnivores.“That way, nothing goes to waste — and we ensure natural behaviour, nutrition and well-being of our predators,” the zoo claimed.The post is accompanied by a picture of a wildcat showing its teeth with its mouth wide open. It also includes a link to the zoo’s website.About the zoo Aalborg Zoo was founded in April 1935. The facility is located near the centre of Aalborg and spans 8 hectares. It houses more than 1,500 animals across 126 species and draws hundreds of thousands of visitors each year.According to the zoo’s official website, Aalborg Zoo focuses on conservation, sustainability and education.It takes part in international breeding programmes for endangered species and supports global efforts in animal conservation, research and fair trade. It was also the first zoo in Denmark to receive an environment certificate and is known for its work in protecting nature and the environment.The zoo maintains that the practice of using donated pets as prey aligns with its mission to support natural behaviours in captive predators.About the AuthorTOI World DeskAt TOI World Desk, our dedicated team of seasoned journalists and passionate writers tirelessly sifts through the vast tapestry of global events to bring you the latest news and diverse perspectives round the clock. With an unwavering commitment to accuracy, depth, and timeliness, we strive to keep you informed about the ever-evolving world, delivering a nuanced understanding of international affairs to our readers. Join us on a journey across continents as we unravel the stories that shape our interconnected world.Read More

Watch: Krasheninnikov volcano erupts after 600 years; Russian earthquake could have triggered it



Watch: Krasheninnikov volcano erupts after 600 years; Russian earthquake could have triggered itTOI World Desk / TIMESOFINDIA.COM / Updated: Aug 03, 2025, 16:10 ISTShareAA+Text SizeSmallMediumLarge Krasheninnikov volcano (X/@volcaholic1) The Krasheninnikov volcano in Kamchatka erupted overnight for the first time in 600 years, scientists and Russia's national news agency, RIA, announced on Sunday. Ash plume as high as 6,000 meters (3.7 miles) has been observed after the volcano erupted, according to Kamchatka's Ministry of Emergency Situations.Russia Earthquake Triggers 2nd Volcano After 450 Years | Watch Ash Soar 19,700 Ft Into SkyRussian state media released images showing a massive ash plume rising from the Krasheninnikov volcano, which, according to the Smithsonian Institution's Global Volcanism Program, last erupted in 1550, reported AFP."The plume is spreading eastward from the volcano toward the Pacific Ocean. There are no populated areas along its path, and no ashfall has been recorded in inhabited localities," the ministry said.PollDo you think the recent earthquakes and eruptions in Kamchatka are connected?Yes, they are relatedNo, they are separate eventsThe eruption of Krasheninnikov volcano came just days after Klyuchevskoy, the tallest active volcano in Europe and Asia spewed lava on Wednesday, prompting authorities to issue an "orange" aviation warning, signalling possible flight disruptions in the area.According to the ministry, “The eruption of the volcano has been assigned an orange aviation code, indicating a heightened risk to aircraft.The twin eruptions closely followed a powerful 8.8 magnitude earthquake off the coast of Petropavlovsk in Russia’s Kamchatka peninsula — one of the strongest quakes recorded globally since 2011.About the AuthorTOI World DeskAt TOI World Desk, our dedicated team of seasoned journalists and passionate writers tirelessly sifts through the vast tapestry of global events to bring you the latest news and diverse perspectives round the clock. With an unwavering commitment to accuracy, depth, and timeliness, we strive to keep you informed about the ever-evolving world, delivering a nuanced understanding of international affairs to our readers. Join us on a journey across continents as we unravel the stories that shape our interconnected world.Read More

Portugal goes on high alert for wildfires

Portugal's government on Saturday issued an alert warning of a heatwave with a high risk of fires in large parts of the country in the coming days. Both Portugal and neighbouring Spain have had to battle wildfires in the recent days, a problem they and other countries face every year.

Portugal's government on Saturday issued an alert warning of a heatwave with a high risk of fires in large parts of the country in the coming days.The alert, covering Sunday to Thursday, included a ban on bonfires, fireworks and the use of electrical equipment in forests.The authorities also restricted access to some woodland areas, announced a boost in staffing for the forest ranger service and increased land and air patrols in high fire-risk areas."The next week will be difficult" said Home Affairs Minister Maria Lucia Amaral.Both Portugal and neighbouring Spain have had to battle wildfires in the recent days, a problem they and other countries face every year.Experts say climate change is increasing the frequency and intensity of droughts and fires around the world.Following the deadly fire season in 2017, Portugal ramped up its spending on wildfire prevention and response. More than 29,000 hectares (71,600 acres) have already been destroyed by fire since the beginning of the year, according to Portugal's Institute of Forests (ICNF).

Watch: Rainfall brings Patna to standstill; waterlogging triggers traffic jams



Watch: Rainfall brings Patna to standstill; waterlogging triggers traffic jamsWatch: Ghaziabad hostel flooded as heavy rain swamps corridors – students struggle to gather belongings'No MPs will be stopped from speaking': Kiren Rijiju defends CISF deployment in Rajya Sabha's well; dismisses opposition concerns'Operation Akhal': One terrorist killed in J&K's Kulgam; joint operation by police, Army, and CRPF under wayThe Enigma of the number sevenTotal Solar eclipse: Here’s what every student should know about this once-in-a-lifetime celestial spectacleSSC exam 2025 glitches spark massive nationwide protest: Here’s why #SSCMisManagement is trending on social mediaNot a single person has accepted the offer: Mira Murati on her team rejecting Mark Zuckerberg’s $1 billion offer to join Meta AISolar Eclipse on August 2: Will it really bring ‘6 minutes of darkness’ in the world? NASA answers after viral buzzSolar Eclipse that will see 'world to go dark for six minutes' on August 2LinkedIn cofounder Reid Hoffman, Silicon Valley's biggest democrat supporter says: There's a problem with Blue states and they need to …Sam Altman, Mark Zuckerberg, Jeff Bezos, and other tech giants to go underground, building secret bunkers for world war crises, pandemics, and climate disastersAstronomer CEO Pete De Joy: To all of our employees at Astronomer; it's time for ...Another indigenous warship joins NavyWho is Mira Murati? Former OpenAI CTO who rejected Mark Zuckerberg’s $1 billion offer to join Meta AITired of too many ads?go ad free nowExplore Every CornerAcross The GlobeUK ReportIndians DeportationsYavat ViolenceStephen CurryMumbai-Kolkata FlightHimachal PradeshBihar ElectionJK EncounterSonali MishraBrooke HoganWWE SummerSlam 2025Sam AltmanSamanpreet KaurNikhil RavishankarRussia Crude OilDonald Trump TariffsIndia-US tradeIndia GDP forecastUS market todayUS hiringErika McEntarferDonald Trump JrSha'Carri RichardsonIslamabad ExpressPM Kisan SchemeSolar EclipseSmackdown Results HighlightsTravis KelceHulk HoganNHL Trade RumorsAbout usCreate Your Own AdTerms of Use and Grievance Redressal Policy Privacy policyAdvertise with usRSSNewsletterFeedbackePaperSitemapArchivesLiving and EntertainmentCricbuzzLifestyleNewspaper SubscriptionFood NewsTVTimes PrimeTravel DestinationsWhats HotETimesTimes LifeTimes PetsMyLifeXPServicesCouponDuniaTechGigTimesJobsBollywood NewsTimes MobileGadgetsTimes EventsWork with UsColombiaHot on the WebKidney HealthCoconut WaterFriendship Day WishesNational Film Awards WinnersAllan AhlbergYuzvendra ChahalKalabhavan Navas DeathChandrashekhar Siddhi Death NewsDementiaBruce WillisKingdom ReviewKingdom Box Office CollectionChrissy MetzDiabetes SymptomsCancerBeetroot Side EffectsAhaan PandayKingdom Movie ReviewNick JonasDhadak 2 Box Office CollectionSaiyaara Box Office CollectionSon of Sardaar 2 Box Office CollectionHari Hara Veera Mallu Movie ReviewMaareesan Movie ReviewDhadak 2 Movie ReviewSon of Sardaar 2 Movie ReviewThalaivan Thalaivii Movie ReviewVitamin DCancer SymptomsSaiyaara Movie ReviewBaby NamesMicrosoft WarningGallbladder StonesJoe BidenUnconventional Romance AnimeCoconut WaterSolar EclipseGum DiseasesAditya GuptaBaba Vanga PredictionChronic InflammationMira MuratiTrending TopicsShannon SharpeEdmonton OilerConnor McdavidShannon Sharpe Net WorthShacarri RichardsonBrooke HoganSummerslam DateDanilo GallinariLuka DonicIndia vs England 5th Test MatchNBA Trade RumorsHailee SteinfeldGisele BndchenChris JonesKaty PerryRRB NTPCSSC ProtestKL RahulPrasidh KrishnaDelhi StampedeMumbai Panic AttackGujarat Traffic Police PosterPrajwal RevannaBengaluru Language RowIIT Bombay Student DeathActor Kalabhavan NavasYounes ZarouBengaluru Crypto FraudChhattisgarh School Principal AssaultVivo V60Elon MuskNyt Connections HintsWordle TodayBill GatesUpi New RulesChatgpt Queries As EvidenceApple Reveals Employees SalariesSpaceX Crew 11Reddit Ceo Steve HuffmanSam AltmanSamsung Galaxy s26 ProSamsung TV Service DownPopular CategoriesHeadlinesSports NewsBusiness NewsIndia NewsWorld NewsBollywood NewsHealth+ TipsIndian TV ShowsTechnologyTravelEtimesHealth & FitnessNFLAugust Long Weekend 2025India vs EnglandAstrologyWeather TodayPlatinum Rate TodaySilver Rate TodayGold Rate TodayIs Bank open todayIs Bank Open TomorrowBank Holidays in AugustPublic Holidays in AugustStock Market HolidaysFinancial CalculatorsTechnology NewsInternational SportsPublic HolidaysBank HolidaysLatest NewsViewers split as Aamir Khan takes Sitaare Zameen Par to YouTube instead of OTTMalayalam actor Kalabhavan Navas death: Police suspect cardiac arrest, fans mourn on social mediaWNBA star Caitlin Clark gives one-word reaction to Sophie Cunningham for having her back in Sun MeleeJeff Bezos’ Blue Origin to launch Indian-origin investor Arvi Singh Bahal and five others to space on August 3 aboard New Shepard rocket; full crew details and launch timingIrfan Aawate appointed president of Rotary Club of Pimpri Elite; Bhandurge named secretary'Welfare of farmers, youth top priority': PM Modi's message to Trump amid trade standoff; hails 'swadeshi' productsChhattisgarh court grants bail to 2 Kerala nuns in human trafficking-conversion case'Her lips move like ... ': Trump praises White House press secretary Karoline Leavitt - Watch videoBoarding like a star: Inside the world of celebrity private charters‘Dhindora Baje Re’ choreographer Vaibhavi Merchant wins National Award after 26 years, celebrates with Rani MukerjiAP Mega DSC 2025 result to be announced shortly at apdsc.apcfss.in; download final answer keys hereAtlee calls 'Jawan' his first 'love letter' to Shah Rukh Khan as SRK wins big at 71st National Film AwardsJason Momoa cast a special person in 'Chief of War'; expresses about "pretty beautiful moment"Mark Zuckerberg meets 24-year-old AI researcher who rejected Meta's $125 million job offer, and then ...Rahul vs EC: Rahul Gandhi says poll body 'obliterated and taken over'; claims at least 15 seats were rigged in Lok Sabha electionsBest days to manifest in August 2025Samsung starts Big Bespoke AI Fest for Independence Day with cashback of up to Rs 50,000Rare spider-tailed horned viper found in Iran with spider-shaped tail: Know its hunting methods, habitat, diet and survival adaptationsCopyright © 2025 Bennett, Coleman & Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. For reprint rights: Times Syndication ServiceFollow Us On 

