Amit Shah accuses INDIA bloc's VP candidate of supporting Naxalism; targets him with 2011 judgment - what he said

Union Home Minister Amit Shah criticized the Congress-led India bloc's Vice President candidate, B. Sudershan Reddy, accusing him of supporting Naxalism through his Salwa Judum judgment. Shah claimed that this judgment delayed the end of Naxal terrorism and diminished Congress's chances in Kerala.

Union Home Minister Amit Shah criticized the Congress-led India bloc's Vice President candidate, B. Sudershan Reddy, accusing him of supporting Naxalism through his Salwa Judum judgment. Shah claimed that this judgment delayed the end of Naxal terrorism and diminished Congress's chances in Kerala.  NEW DELHI: If the Congress-led India bloc's Vice President candidate, B Sudershan Reddy, had not delivered the Salwa Judum judgment, the extremist Left movement in the country would have ended before 2020, Union home minister and senior BJP leader Amit Shah on Friday accused his of "supporting" Naxalism.Speaking after inaugurating the Manorama News conclave organised by the Malayala Manorama group in Delhi, Shah remarked that the Congress party’s chances of winning in Kerala had further diminished due to its choice of candidate for the Vice-President post.Why INDIA Bloc Chose Justice Sudershan Reddy as Its Vice President Pick Against NDA's Radhakrishnan "Sudershan Reddy is the person who helped Naxalism. He gave Salwa Judum judgment. If the Salwa Judum judgment had not been given, the Naxal terrorism would have ended by 2020. He is the person who was inspired by the ideology that gave Salwa Judum judgment," PTI quoted Shah said during a question-and-answer session at the conclave. The statement refers to the December 2011 Supreme Court judgment by Justice Reddy, which ruled that using tribal youths as Special Police Officers—whether called 'Koya Commandos', Salwa Judum, or by any other name—in the fight against Maoist insurgents was illegal and unconstitutional, ordering their immediate disarmament. Shah added that Kerala had borne the brunt of Naxalism. "People of Kerala will certainly see that the Congress party, under the pressure of Left parties, is fielding a candidate who supported Naxalism and used a pious forum like the Supreme Court," he asserted. The ruling NDA had selected Maharashtra Governor C P Radhakrishnan, a seasoned BJP leader from Tamil Nadu with an RSS background, as its vice-presidential candidate. What was Salwa Judam judgment?In 2011, Reddy gave a landmark judgment which declared the controversial Salwa Judum militia in Chhattisgarh as unconstitutional. The Salwa Judum, which was accused of human rights abuses, was a state-sponsored militia raised in 2005 to counter Maoist insurgency. It comprised largely tribal youth armed with basic training and firearms. The militia was later disbanded. His ruling, rooted in the protection of fundamental rights, underscored that state-sponsored vigilantism could not replace constitutional policing. In Nandini Sundar versus state of Chhattisgarh, the bench led by Justice Reddy held that arming tribal youth as special police officers under Salwa Judum was illegal and unconstitutional.About the AuthorTOI News DeskThe TOI News Desk comprises a dedicated and tireless team of journalists who operate around the clock to deliver the most current and comprehensive news and updates to the readers of The Times of India worldwide. With an unwavering commitment to excellence in journalism, our team is at the forefront of gathering, verifying, and presenting breaking news, in-depth analysis, and insightful reports on a wide range of topics. The TOI News Desk is your trusted source for staying informed and connected to the ever-evolving global landscape, ensuring that our readers are equipped with the latest developments that matter most."Read More

'Allow me to be a little nostalgic': Ahead of PM Modi's visit, Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee claims credit for Kolkata Metro



'Allow me to be a little nostalgic': Ahead of PM Modi's visit, Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee claims credit for Kolkata MetroRBI board reviews economic outlook; global and domestic challenges discussed, new MPC nomination clearedRs 76 lakh wedding turns nightmare as bride faces abuse for not being ‘Nora Fatehi’Hollow Knight: Silksong – Story, gameplay, and everything we know so farUGC extends ODL and online admissions deadline for July–August 2025 session: Check details hereADB–Pakistan funding: $410m package approved for Reko Diq; activists raise human rights and environmental concerns'Shah Rukh Khan is very boring about his food, his suite door is always open,' says Boman Irani about his co-star: 'He never allows his stardom....'‘War crime that should haunt us all’: UN declares first Middle East famine in Gaza City; Israel dismisses claim as ‘Hamas lies’The hidden superpower each zodiac has in a crisis'Not at a crisis level yet': BWF plays down shuttlecock shortage fears, urges manufacturers to fast-track synthetic optionsEom Tae-goo lends a helping hand to 'Big Issue' once again; to volunteer to help homeless vendors in SeoulReal money gaming app ban: Zupee, MPL, Dream Sports and others start shutdown of these divisionsCopyright © 2025 Bennett, Coleman & Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. For reprint rights: Times Syndication ServiceFollow Us On 

SIR row: SC says Aadhaar valid; deleted voters can now to fill form online - 5 key takeaways



SIR row: SC says Aadhaar valid; deleted voters can now to fill form online - 5 key takeawaysTOI News Desk / TIMESOFINDIA.COM / Updated: Aug 22, 2025, 16:53 ISTShareAA+Text SizeSmallMediumLarge  NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Friday permitted Aadhaar as a valid document for applicants seeking inclusion in the electoral list of poll-bound Bihar following special intensive revision.A bench of justices Suryakant and Joymala Bagchi directed the Elections Commission to accept application of voters who were excluded in the draft electoral list through online mode and said that the physical submission of forms is not necessary.Here are 5 key takeawaysThe top court said that claim forms can be submitted along with Aadhaar card or any other 11 acceptable documents.The bench also said that the Booth Level Agents (BLAs) can submit the objections online without the need to file physical documents.It added that booth level officers shall also provide an acknowledgement receipt after the forms are submitted physically. "We will allow online submission of claims of deleted voters with Aadhaar card or any other acceptable documents for Bihar SIR," the bench said.The bench also instructed the 12 recognised political parties in Bihar to instruct their booth level agents (BLAs) to assist the persons in their respective booths for the submission of the forms."All the political parties shall file the status report by the next date of hearing on the claim form they had facilitated in filing by excluded voters," the bench said.The top court also expressed surprise that only two objections were filed from the political parties despite having 1.6 lakh BLAs."What we are surprised to see is that 1.6 lakh BLAs have so far filed only two objections. On the other hand, some political parties submitted that the BLAs are not being permitted to submit their objections," the bench noted.The Supreme Court is dealing with a bunch of petitions challenging poll body special intensive revision of Bihar's electoral rolls ahead of the state's assembly elections. The next hearing is scheduled for September 8.On August 14, the top court directed the poll panel to publish by August 19 details of the 65 lakh voters excluded from the draft electoral rolls in poll-bound Bihar to enhance "transparency" .Observing that the EC should put at rest the “narrative being built” against it, the bench had also ordered that the details should include reasons for their non-inclusion during the ongoing SIR exercise. "Transparency will create voter confidence."The revision of the voters’ list in Bihar--the first since 2003--has sparked a huge political row. The SIR's findings have reduced the total number of 7.9 crore registered voters in Bihar, from before the exercise, to 7.24 crore.About the AuthorTOI News DeskThe TOI News Desk comprises a dedicated and tireless team of journalists who operate around the clock to deliver the most current and comprehensive news and updates to the readers of The Times of India worldwide. With an unwavering commitment to excellence in journalism, our team is at the forefront of gathering, verifying, and presenting breaking news, in-depth analysis, and insightful reports on a wide range of topics. The TOI News Desk is your trusted source for staying informed and connected to the ever-evolving global landscape, ensuring that our readers are equipped with the latest developments that matter most."Read More

'Too harsh': Supreme Court modifies order on Delhi stray dogs - top quotes

The Supreme Court has revised its order regarding stray dogs in Delhi-NCR, permitting the release of sterilised, immunised, and dewormed dogs back to their original locations, except for those with rabies or aggressive tendencies. The court also banned public feeding, mandating designated feeding zones, and extended the ruling nationwide, directing compliance with ABC Rules and planning a unified national policy.

The Supreme Court has revised its order regarding stray dogs in Delhi-NCR, permitting the release of sterilised, immunised, and dewormed dogs back to their original locations, except for those with rabies or aggressive tendencies. The court also banned public feeding, mandating designated feeding zones, and extended the ruling nationwide, directing compliance with ABC Rules and planning a unified national policy.  NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Friday reversed the August 11 order on the relocation of stray dogs in Delhi-NCR, saying that the animals that are not rabid or aggressive will not be shifted to shelters but instead sterilised, immunised, and released back to their original locations.The court said that the "direction given in the order dated 11th August, 2025, prohibiting the release of the treated and vaccinated dogs seems to be too harsh." It referenced Rule 11(9) of the ABC Rules, which mandates that once stray dogs have been sterilised, inoculated, and dewormed, they must be released back into the same locality from which they were picked up. A three-judge bench comprising Justice Vikram Nath, Justice Sandeep Mehta, and Justice NV Anjaria clarified that stray dogs must be released to their original areas after sterilisation, deworming, and immunisation, except for those infected with rabies, suspected of rabies infection, or exhibiting aggressive behaviour.Here are top quotes:"The provision in Rule 11(19) that the dogs, upon sterilisation and immunisation, should be relocated to the same locality from which they have been picked up, is scientifically carved out inasmuch as it serves two purposes. Firstly, the same prevents the scope of overcrowding in the dog shelters/pounds, and secondly, the picked-up stray dogs after immunisation and sterilisation are relocated to the same environment where they were living earlier, which is a compassionate treatment," the court said."The aggressive sterilisation would definitely put a curb on the rapid growth of the stray dog population, ultimately leading to its reduction. However, this is possible only in an idealistic situation, which seems unlikely in the present scenario," the court said.The court said, "It was argued by some of the counsels appearing for the animal lovers that the process of sterilisation and inoculation has worked wonders in many towns across the country and has significantly brought down the population of stray dogs. To be specific, it was pointed out that towns like Dehradun and Lucknow, which have taken aggressive measures for sterilisation, etc., as per the ABC Rules, have seen a steady decline in the population of stray dogs. A suggestion has also been received that chemical castration is a safe, painless, and effective mode of sterilisation.""A blanket direction to pick up all the strays and place them in dog shelters/pounds without evaluating the existing infrastructure may lead to a catch-22 situation because such directions may be impossible to comply with. We, therefore, feel that a holistic approach requires mollification of the directions issued vide order dated 11th August, 2025," the court said.The court also ordered a ban on public feeding of stray dogs and directed the establishment of dedicated feeding spaces. The Bench reiterated the August 11 order that no individual or organisation should obstruct municipal authorities from picking up dogs in accordance with the ABC Rules.The scope of the matter was extended beyond Delhi-NCR to a pan-India level, involving all States and Union Territories, Secretaries of Animal Husbandry departments, Secretaries of local bodies, and Municipal corporations for compliance with ABC Rules. The court also stated that it would transfer similar petitions pending in high courts to itself to formulate a national policy on the issue.The Supreme Court has supplemented and modified earlier directions on stray dog management, laying down fresh guidelines for municipal bodies:  Municipal authorities must continue complying with previous directions, but the bar on releasing picked-up strays has been kept in abeyance. Stray dogs are to be sterilised, dewormed, vaccinated, and then released in the same area, except in cases of rabies or aggressive behaviour. Such dogs must be kept in shelters after treatment.   Each municipal ward must establish designated feeding zones for stray dogs. Feeding on streets is prohibited, with violators facing legal action. Helplines are to be set up for reporting violations.   No individual or organisation may obstruct officials implementing these directions; obstruction will invite prosecution.   NGOs involved in the case must deposit Rs 2 lakh each, while individual dog lovers must deposit Rs 25,000 each, within seven days. These funds will be used for stray-dog infrastructure.   Citizens may formally adopt stray dogs through municipal bodies, ensuring adopted dogs do not return to the streets.   Municipalities must file compliance affidavits, detailing available facilities such as dog pounds, vets, capture staff, and vehicles.About the AuthorTOI News DeskThe TOI News Desk comprises a dedicated and tireless team of journalists who operate around the clock to deliver the most current and comprehensive news and updates to the readers of The Times of India worldwide. With an unwavering commitment to excellence in journalism, our team is at the forefront of gathering, verifying, and presenting breaking news, in-depth analysis, and insightful reports on a wide range of topics. The TOI News Desk is your trusted source for staying informed and connected to the ever-evolving global landscape, ensuring that our readers are equipped with the latest developments that matter most."Read More

'The House will consider': Hemant Soren on Bharat Ratna call for Shibu Soren; JMM urges government to send proposal to Centre

Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren responded to the call for Bharat Ratna to be awarded to his father, Shibu Soren, acknowledging the sentiment of the House. The JMM has formally requested the state government to propose and pass a resolution recommending the honor for Shibu Soren, highlighting his contributions to the Jharkhand statehood movement, tribal rights, and social justice.

Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren responded to the call for Bharat Ratna to be awarded to his father, Shibu Soren, acknowledging the sentiment of the House. The JMM has formally requested the state government to propose and pass a resolution recommending the honor for Shibu Soren, highlighting his contributions to the Jharkhand statehood movement, tribal rights, and social justice. Hemant Soren (PTI image) NEW DELHI: Jharkhand chief ministerHemant Soren grew emotional while expressing his views on the demand to confer the Bharat Ratna, India’s highest civilian award, on his father and Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) supremo Shibu Soren. "It is the emotion of the House. The members presented the public sentiment in the House. The House will consider," Soren said. On Thursday, the ruling JMM urged the chief minister to introduce and pass a proposal for conferring the Bharat Ratna on Shibu Soren.Shibu Soren Dies At 81: President Murmu, PM Modi, Leaders Remember A Tribal Icon, Political TitanAlong with other leaders, JMM general secretary Vinod Pandey, in a formal statement issued on behalf of the party, urged the state government to pass a resolution in the Assembly recommending Bharat Ratna for Shibu Soren and forward it to the Centre."We urge the state govt to pass a proposal for Bharat Ratna to late Guruji and send it to the central govt," Pandey said."The govt should ensure that the voice of the assembly, united in respect for Guruji, must reach Delhi. Shibuji has been the tallest leader of the statehood movement. His life is a remarkable example of sacrifice, struggle, and service. He led public movements against alcoholism and the moneylending system, connected the tribal community with education and social awareness, and brought the movement for a separate Jharkhand state to a decisive point. He deserve Bharat Ratna," he added.Shibu Soren, popularly known as Dishom Guru, is regarded as a prominent figure in Indian tribal politics and played a key role in the Jharkhand statehood movement. A three-time Chief Minister and former Union Minister, he was at the forefront of tribal rights and social justice struggles in the region.He was admitted to Sir Ganga Ram Hospital in Delhi in the last week of June with a kidney-related ailment and passed away on August 4 at the age of 81. On the same day, the ongoing state Assembly monsoon session was suspended abruptly following his demise. The current session will now run until October 28. About the AuthorTOI News DeskThe TOI News Desk comprises a dedicated and tireless team of journalists who operate around the clock to deliver the most current and comprehensive news and updates to the readers of The Times of India worldwide. With an unwavering commitment to excellence in journalism, our team is at the forefront of gathering, verifying, and presenting breaking news, in-depth analysis, and insightful reports on a wide range of topics. The TOI News Desk is your trusted source for staying informed and connected to the ever-evolving global landscape, ensuring that our readers are equipped with the latest developments that matter most."Read More

'ECI stands totally exposed & discredited': Congress hails SC verdict on Bihar SIR; claims democracy survived 'brutal assault'

The Congress party has lauded the Supreme Court's decision regarding the Bihar Special Intensive Revision (SIR) of electoral rolls, asserting that the Election Commission of India (ECI) has been discredited. The court directed the ECI to allow excluded voters to file claims online and offline, accepting Aadhaar as a valid ID.

The Congress party has lauded the Supreme Court's decision regarding the Bihar Special Intensive Revision (SIR) of electoral rolls, asserting that the Election Commission of India (ECI) has been discredited. The court directed the ECI to allow excluded voters to file claims online and offline, accepting Aadhaar as a valid ID.  NEW DELHI: Congress on Friday welcomed the Supreme Court's verdict on the Bihar Special Intensive Revision (SIR) of electoral rolls, claiming that the Election Commission of India (ECI) stands "totally exposed and discredited."Congress general secretary in-charge of communications, Jairam Ramesh, in a post on X, welcomed the ruling, saying that the democracy had survived a "brutal assault" from the EC."The INC welcomes today's verdict of the Supreme Court on the Bihar SIR issue. Democracy has survived a brutal assault from the Election Commission of India (ECI). On August 14th, the Supreme Court had intervened to set aside the ECI's decision to withhold the list of deleted voters. The Supreme Court had directed that the list of deleted voters must be published ALONG WITH the reasons for such deletions," Jairam posted on X."Today, the ECI stands totally exposed and discredited. Its G2 puppeteers stand decisively defeated," he added.Congress' remarks came after the Supreme Court directed the ECI to allow excluded voters to file their claims both online and offline during the Special Intensive Revision (SIR) of electoral rolls in poll-bound Bihar.Ramesh further noted that on August 14, the top court had already struck down the ECI’s move to withhold the list of deleted voters and ordered its publication along with reasons for deletions."On August 14th, the Supreme Court had also directed the ECI to accept Aadhar cards as proof of identity for those deleted. Today it reaffirmed Aadhar as a valid ID that the ECI MUST accept. Today, the Supreme Court has laid down guardrails to make the revision more inclusive by including political parties in the process," the Congress leader posted.Taking aim at the poll body’s functioning, Ramesh added, "So far the ECI's approach has been obstructionist and contrary to the interests of the voters. We welcome this judgment especially because it gives us an enforceable right which the ECI cannot ignore."Earlier in the day, a bench of Justices Surya Kant and Joymalya Bagchi also ruled that claim forms could be submitted with an Aadhaar number or any one of the 11 recognised identity documents.Noting with concern that political parties had not filed objections regarding the exclusion of nearly 65 lakh voters, the Court directed the Chief Electoral Officer of Bihar to include them as parties to the proceedings."We will allow online submission of claims of deleted voters with Aadhaar card or any other acceptable documents for Bihar SIR," the bench said, as quoted by PTI."All the political parties shall file the status report by the next date of hearing on the claim form they had facilitated in filing by excluded voters," the bench added.The matter has been posted for hearing on September 8.Meanwhile, senior advocate Rakesh Dwivedi, appearing for the ECI, requested the Court to grant the poll panel 15 days to establish that no wrongful exclusions had taken place.About the AuthorTOI News DeskThe TOI News Desk comprises a dedicated and tireless team of journalists who operate around the clock to deliver the most current and comprehensive news and updates to the readers of The Times of India worldwide. With an unwavering commitment to excellence in journalism, our team is at the forefront of gathering, verifying, and presenting breaking news, in-depth analysis, and insightful reports on a wide range of topics. The TOI News Desk is your trusted source for staying informed and connected to the ever-evolving global landscape, ensuring that our readers are equipped with the latest developments that matter most."Read More

Watch: Crater-like potholes on Chiplun’s Vashishti bridge; NHAI says not its jurisdiction



Watch: Crater-like potholes on Chiplun’s Vashishti bridge; NHAI says not its jurisdiction'Accept Aadhaar or any 11 docs': SC says Bihar SIR exercise should be voter friendly; expresses surprise over political parties’ 'inaction'‘Scientific judgement’: Maneka Gandhi hails Supreme Court stray dog ruling; seeks definition of 'aggression''We saw how files were being signed from jail ...': PM Modi on bill to sack jailed PM, CMs; jibe at oppositionBig relief for animal lovers! SC revises order, tells MCD to let off all stray dogs except the aggressive – Here’s what unfolded in 11 daysWatch: Constable caught on video trying to push passenger out of train; RPF says it was at platformPush for handicrafts: Textiles minister Giriraj Singh inaugurates retail hub in Delhi; ‘The Kunj’ envisaged as a model for initiatives nationwideDedicated feeding zones, vaccination & more: Supreme Court’s major order on stray dogs — Key takeawaysParliament security breach: Man jumps wall, enters premises; what we know so farHybrid security: CISF trains private guards at smaller ports; focus on threat identification, emergency response“The way her face changed”: Taylor Swift’s expression in a new resurfaced clip with Travis Kelce has made fans emotional'Cracker Barrel goes woke': CEO under MAGA fire for changing logo first time in 48 years, removes 'white guy'USCIS tightens the age-out noose on H-1B kids: How this rule change could derail their college dreamsPakistan SC grants bail to Imran Khan in May 9 cases, but ex-PM stays in jailIndian student arrivals to US crash 46% in July: Here’s how it could cost American students“It’s a war”: Wayne Gretzky’s legacy came under fire amid Donald Trump’s controversial trade war with CanadaTrump admin reviewing 55 million visas: Focus on deportable offences; 6,000 student visas already revokedHoroscope Tomorrow, August 22, 2025: Ketu can cause emotional detachment for these zodiac signs tomorrowTaylor Swift and Travis Kelce spark engagement buzz as fans anticipate big anniversary announcementPatrick Mahomes opens up on father’s DWI arrest and reveals how the incident deeply impacted his familyTired of too many ads?go ad free nowExplore Every CornerAcross The GlobeWayne GretzkyRoblox shutdownSerena WilliamsTaylor SwiftAlligator AlcatrazWBJEE ResultShubhanshu ShuklaSnoop DoggWBJEE Toppers 2025Janel GrantAP DSC Merit ListYashasvi JaiswalSachin TendulkarOnline Gaming BillEric AdamsVillanova University shootingUS Truck Driver VisaAlina HabbaErik MenendezRanil WickremesingheAP DSC Merit ListGaganyaan MissionColorado dairy accidentAlligator AlcatrazWashingtonUSAID ClaimBSNLChina ExportDelhi Stray DogsUS Visa HolderAbout usCreate Your Own AdTerms of Use and Grievance Redressal Policy Privacy policyAdvertise with usRSSNewsletterFeedbackePaperSitemapArchivesLiving and EntertainmentCricbuzzLifestyleNewspaper SubscriptionFood NewsTVTimes PrimeTravel DestinationsWhats HotETimesTimes LifeTimes PetsMyLifeXPServicesCouponDuniaTechGigTimesJobsBollywood NewsTimes MobileGadgetsTimes EventsWork with UsColombiaHot on the WebUS VisaColon Cancer SymptomsKidney HealthAkshay KumarGauri KhanDhanashree VermaRajesh KhannaShah Rukh KhanVivek AgnihotriMagnesium Deficiency SymptomsHeart AttackHigh Blood Sugar SymptomsElvish YadavBeautiful Pet BirdsUSFDA Cookware WarningVitamins For Hair GrowthBelly Fat LossLiver HealthOzempic Vulva Side EffectsJaswinder BhallaHair RegrowthBrain-Eating Amoeba SymptomsMillie Bobby BrownOveractive Bladder SymptomsYuzvendra ChahalKapil SharmaTaj Mahal Restricted ChambersWar 2 Box Office CollectionCoolie Movie ReviewCoolie Box Office CollectionOvercrowded Tourist DestinationsAshwagandha For MenHigh Protein FoodsKidney Stone PainHigh Cholesterol SymptomsLakshman BootiColorectal CancerOral SymptomsReduce Face Fat DietSide Effects Of BananasGinger Tea Side EffectsKidney Damage SymptomsTrending TopicsManoj TiwaryDhanashree VermaBabar AzamHTET ResultGATE 2026IBPS Clerk 2025 RegistrationIndian Students in USAWho is DR Pooshan MohapatraMBBS and PG Seats in IndiaSara ErraniNEET PG Answer KeyPragyan OjhaNovak DjokovicYashasvi JaiswalSSC Phase 13 ExamJoe BurnsD GukeshMohammed RizwanWomens World CupRare Earth MagnetsMumbai BEST Election ResultAhmedabad Student MurderRekha Gupta Attack CaseJaswinder BhallaAhmedabad School MurderSinhagad Fort Missing NewsDK ShivakumarSupreme Court Stray Dog VerdictGhaziabad SuicideKarnataka E ChallanMustafa SuleymanEpic CEO FaulknerCoconut Water For Kidney PatientsApple iPhone 17Bill GatesGTA 6Kairan QuaziNyt ConnectionsStarlink To Use AadhaarOpenai Cfo Sarah FriarOpenAI Opens India OfficeWordle TodayPopular CategoriesHeadlinesSports NewsBusiness NewsIndia NewsWorld NewsBollywood NewsHealth+ TipsIndian TV ShowsTechnologyTravelEtimesHealth & FitnessNFLAugust Long Weekend 2025India vs EnglandAstrologyWeather TodayPlatinum Rate TodaySilver Rate TodayGold Rate TodayIs Bank open todayIs Bank Open TomorrowBank Holidays in AugustPublic Holidays in AugustStock Market HolidaysFinancial CalculatorsTechnology NewsInternational SportsPublic HolidaysBank HolidaysLatest NewsRishikas- The Symbols Of Women Empowerment In Ancient IndiaGTA 6 parent Take-Two cuts over 80 jobs, this 10-year-old gaming studio gets affectedChina tragedy: Under construction brige collapses into Yellow river; 10 dead, 4 missing‘Hridayapoorvam’ completes final mix; Mohanlal–Sathyan Anthikad reunite after a decade; set for Onam releaseWhy Donald Trump and GOP ought to heed Nikki Haley's India-China warning'Captain Prabhakaran' returns: Premalatha Vijayakanth and Vijaya Prabhakaran turn emotional; fans celebrate Vijayakanth’s 100th film with emotional tributeWBJEE toppers 2025: Don Bosco’s Aniruddha tops, check list of top rank holders hereThe enemy of my enemy: When Elon Musk asked his biggest rival to help him buy OpenAIForgery case on founder of OTT platformHuman Rights Forum (HRF) condemns govt's renewed push to privatise VSPMenstrual hygiene in monsoon: Health risks women should not ignore5 fun tricks to supercharge fine motor skills in your child“That’s like f**k me”: Snoop Dogg sparks same s*x controversy as AFL defends $2 million Grand Final showInstagram rolls out reels linking feature, allowing creators to build episodic seriesRare earth magnets crunch eases: Bajaj Auto resumes supplies of e-scooter Chetak; Rajiv Bajaj had earlier warned of zero production monthBest time to eat dry fruits and nuts for weight management, boost energy, and better sleep8 silent warning signs your home is at risk of damageExclusive: Devoleena Bhattacharjee on her first birthday as a mother; says ‘It is an opportunity to reflect on the incredible transformation motherhood brings’Copyright © 2025 Bennett, Coleman & Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. For reprint rights: Times Syndication ServiceFollow Us On 

'Accept Aadhaar or any 11 docs': SC says Bihar SIR exercise should be voter friendly; expresses surprise over political parties’ 'inaction'

The Supreme Court has expressed concern over the limited involvement of political parties in rectifying voter deletions during Bihar's Special Intensive Revision. Despite the Election Commission adding 85,000 new voters, only two objections were filed by political parties.

The Supreme Court has expressed concern over the limited involvement of political parties in rectifying voter deletions during Bihar's Special Intensive Revision. Despite the Election Commission adding 85,000 new voters, only two objections were filed by political parties.  NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Friday expressed surprise at the lack of political parties’ involvement in correcting names of voters deleted during the Special Intensive Revision (SIR) of electoral rolls in Bihar. The top court also said that claim forms can be submitted along with Aadhaar card or any other 11 acceptable documents."We will allow online submission of claims of deleted voters with Aadhaar card or any other acceptable documents for Bihar SIR," the bench said, as quoted by PTI."All the political parties shall file the status report by the next date of hearing on the claim form they had facilitated in filing by excluded voters," the bench added.The matter has been posted for hearing on September 8.During the hearing, the Election Commission informed the court that while 85,000 new voters had been added in the ongoing revision, only two objections had been filed by booth-level agents of political parties.PollDo you think the voter list revision in Bihar is being handled effectively?Yes, the process is transparent and fairNo, more needs to be done to include all votersA bench of Justices Surya Kant and Joymalya Bagchi resumed hearing a batch of petitions challenging the SIR exercise. The petitions were filed by RJD MP Manoj Jha, the Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR), PUCL, activist Yogendra Yadav, Trinamool Congress MP Mahua Moitra and former Bihar MLA Mujahid Alam.The petitioners have sought to quash the ECI’s June 24 directive, which requires large numbers of voters in Bihar to submit proof of citizenship to stay on the rolls. What happened earlierOn August 14, Election Commission uploaded details of 65 lakh deleted voters from Bihar’s draft electoral rolls on district magistrates’ websites, following a Supreme Court order. Chief election commissioner Gyanesh Kumar said the move was made “within 56 hours of the top court directive” to ensure transparency. He explained that Electoral Registration Officers and Booth Level Officers bear responsibility for the accuracy of rolls, which are shared digitally and physically with parties and the public. Draft rolls in Bihar, published on August 1, remain open for claims and objections until September 1.Defending the exercise, Kumar said it was a “matter of grave concern” that some parties were spreading “misinformation”, stressing that India’s election system is a “multi-layered, decentralised construct as envisaged by law.”During the previous hearing, the Supreme Court said it could set aside the results of the special intensive revision if illegality was proven. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, for RJD MP Manoj Jha, argued the exclusion of 65 lakh voters was unlawful, while Prashant Bhushan accused the EC of making the rolls non-searchable. The court countered claims about lack of documents, saying “everybody possesses some certificate.” The hearing will continue, with the final rolls due on September 30.About the AuthorTOI News DeskThe TOI News Desk comprises a dedicated and tireless team of journalists who operate around the clock to deliver the most current and comprehensive news and updates to the readers of The Times of India worldwide. With an unwavering commitment to excellence in journalism, our team is at the forefront of gathering, verifying, and presenting breaking news, in-depth analysis, and insightful reports on a wide range of topics. The TOI News Desk is your trusted source for staying informed and connected to the ever-evolving global landscape, ensuring that our readers are equipped with the latest developments that matter most."Read More

‘Scientific judgement’: Maneka Gandhi hails Supreme Court stray dog ruling; seeks definition of 'aggression'

The Supreme Court's revised order on stray dogs, hailed by Maneka Gandhi as "scientific," mandates the return of sterilised and vaccinated canines to their original locations, while aggressive or rabid dogs will be sheltered.

The Supreme Court's revised order on stray dogs, hailed by Maneka Gandhi as "scientific," mandates the return of sterilised and vaccinated canines to their original locations, while aggressive or rabid dogs will be sheltered.  NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court’s latest ruling on the treatment of stray dogs has been welcomed as a step forward by animal rights activist and BJP leader Maneka Gandhi, who described it as a “scientific judgement.” The court on Friday modified its earlier order barring the release of stray dogs in Delhi-NCR and directed that the canines, once sterilised, vaccinated and dewormed, be returned to the areas they were picked up from.“I am very happy with this scientific judgement. Relocation and fear are the only reasons for dogs biting. There is no question of releasing dogs infected with rabies,” Gandhi said, hailing the court’s directions. However, she also flagged the absence of a clear standard for identifying dangerous canines. “The court has not defined what an aggressive dog is. This needs to be defined,” she added.The bench, led by Justice Vikram Nath, clarified that dogs suspected to be rabid or showing aggression would not be released back onto the streets, but instead kept in shelters after sterilisation and immunisation. The court also ordered municipal bodies to create designated feeding areas in every ward, with signboards to indicate where dogs may be fed. “It is absolutely right (order to create designated feeding areas). They (civic authority) also have to put up signboards for such designated areas,” Gandhi remarked.The ruling comes after widespread protests against the Supreme Court’s August 11 directive to permanently round up stray dogs across Delhi-NCR. The backlash prompted the bench to suspend the earlier restriction, while broadening the scope of the case nationwide to shape a uniform policy. Gandhi pointed to the government’s commitment to strengthening animal control mechanisms, noting, “As per the order, the municipal corporations will have to set up proper ABC (Animal Birth Control) centres. For the first time in 25 years, the government stated in Parliament that it is allocating Rs 2,500 crores for this program.”About the AuthorTOI News DeskThe TOI News Desk comprises a dedicated and tireless team of journalists who operate around the clock to deliver the most current and comprehensive news and updates to the readers of The Times of India worldwide. With an unwavering commitment to excellence in journalism, our team is at the forefront of gathering, verifying, and presenting breaking news, in-depth analysis, and insightful reports on a wide range of topics. The TOI News Desk is your trusted source for staying informed and connected to the ever-evolving global landscape, ensuring that our readers are equipped with the latest developments that matter most."Read More

'We saw how files were being signed from jail ...': PM Modi on bill to sack jailed PM, CMs; jibe at opposition

Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated and laid the foundation for development projects worth Rs 13,000 crore in Gaya, Bihar, focusing on power, roads, urban infrastructure, health, and water supply. He flagged off the Amrit Bharat Express and Buddhist Circuit Train.

Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated and laid the foundation for development projects worth Rs 13,000 crore in Gaya, Bihar, focusing on power, roads, urban infrastructure, health, and water supply. He flagged off the Amrit Bharat Express and Buddhist Circuit Train.  NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday hit out at the Opposition during a rally in Gaya, questioning how chief ministers can continue in office even after being jailed while government employees face suspension if imprisoned for more than 50 hours. “If a government employee is imprisoned for 50 hours, then he loses his job automatically, be it a driver, a clerk or a peon. But a CM, a minister, or even a PM can enjoy staying in the government even from jail... Some time ago, we saw how files were being signed from jail and how government orders were given from jail. If leaders have such an attitude, how can we fight corruption... NDA government has brought a law against corruption, and the Prime Minister also comes under its purview...,” PM Modi said.Opposition accused of shielding leaders The Prime Minister alleged that parties such as Congress, RJD and the Left are opposing new laws to ensure accountability. “Our forefathers, like Rajendra Babu, could not have imagined that those in jail would continue to occupy constitutional positions,” he said, adding that these parties fear scrutiny “as they have committed wrongs and fear the consequences.”PM Modi also accused them of protecting what he called “intruders” for electoral gains. “I had expressed concern about intruders, we can’t allow them to settle and take away rights of country’s youth. We shall ensure they are identified. Congress and RJD are protecting these intruders for vote bank and appeasement. People of Bihar need to be careful about intruders,” he said.Development push worth Rs 13,000 crore Alongside the political attack, PM Modi inaugurated and laid the foundation stone of development projects worth around Rs 13,000 crore across Bihar, covering power, roads, health, urban infrastructure and water supply. He flagged off the Amrit Bharat Express between Gaya and Delhi and the Buddhist Circuit Train between Vaishali and Koderma, saying they would improve connectivity and tourism at Buddhist sites. Urban projects worth Rs 1,260 crore were launched, including sewerage networks in Aurangabad, Jehanabad, Lakhisarai and Jamui, and water supply initiatives in Aurangabad, Bodhgaya and Jehanabad under AMRUT 2.0. In a major infrastructure boost, Modi inaugurated the 8.15 km Aunta-Simaria bridge on NH-31, including a six-lane stretch over the Ganga built at a cost of Rs 1,870 crore. Officials said it will cut detours of over 100 km for heavy vehicles, ease congestion and improve access to Simaria Dham, birthplace of poet Ramdhari Singh Dinkar. The Prime Minister also opened the Bakhtiyarpur–Mokama section of NH-31 worth Rs 1,900 crore, and announced upgrades to the NH-120 Bikramganj–Dawath–Nawanagar–Dumraon section to strengthen rural connectivity. Bihar’s power sector received a major addition with the inauguration of the Rs 6,880 crore Buxar Thermal Power Plant (660x1 MW), expected to meet rising energy demands.Health and sanitation projects In health, PM Modi inaugurated the Homi Bhabha Cancer Hospital and Research Centre at Muzaffarpur, equipped with modern oncology facilities, ICUs and labs to provide advanced treatment to patients in Bihar and neighbouring states. He also launched a sewage treatment plant and sewerage network in Munger under Namami Gange, worth Rs 520 crore, aimed at reducing pollution in the Ganga.Hits out at RJD and Congress PM Modi criticised RJD’s governance record: “Remember the condition here during the rule of lantern (RJD). This region was in the clutches of red terror. Cities like Gaya Ji were in darkness during the rule of 'lantern' (RJD)... They had pushed the entire state into darkness. There was no education or employment. So many generations were forced to migrate. RJD considers the people of Bihar only as their vote bank. They want nothing to do with their life, sorrows, or respect.” He also targeted Congress, recalling a past remark: “A Congress CM had said that he will not let people of Bihar enter his state. No one can forget Congress' hate for the people of Bihar. Despite seeing the Congress' misbehaviour with the people of Bihar, the RJD were in deep sleep... NDA is working hard so that the youth of Bihar can get employment here in their state, so that they get respect and they are able to stay with their parents.”On terrorism and national security Linking Bihar’s legacy to India’s security policy, PM Modi said: “A pledge taken on the soil of Bihar is never left unfulfilled. When there was a terrorist attack in Kashmir’s Pahalgam and our innocent citizens were killed, from this land of Bihar, I had said that terrorists would be crushed. Today the world is witnessing that the pledge taken from Bihar has been fulfilled... Operation Sindoor has drawn a new line in India’s security policy. Now, no one who sends terrorists to attack India will be spared.” “Bihar is the land of Chanakya and Chandragupta Maurya. Bihar has stood as the backbone of the country at all times. Every resolve made on this pious land is the strength of the country and doesn't go in vain. When the Pahalgam terror attack happened, I had vowed to reduce the terrorists to dust from this land. The world has seen that resolve getting fulfilled,” he added.About the AuthorTOI News DeskThe TOI News Desk comprises a dedicated and tireless team of journalists who operate around the clock to deliver the most current and comprehensive news and updates to the readers of The Times of India worldwide. With an unwavering commitment to excellence in journalism, our team is at the forefront of gathering, verifying, and presenting breaking news, in-depth analysis, and insightful reports on a wide range of topics. The TOI News Desk is your trusted source for staying informed and connected to the ever-evolving global landscape, ensuring that our readers are equipped with the latest developments that matter most."Read More

Big relief for animal lovers! SC revises order, tells MCD to let off all stray dogs except the aggressive – Here’s what unfolded in 11 days

The Supreme Court has modified its order regarding stray dogs in Delhi and NCR, mandating their return to original areas post-sterilization and vaccination, excluding rabid or aggressive animals. This decision follows widespread protests against the initial directive to relocate all strays to shelters.

The Supreme Court has modified its order regarding stray dogs in Delhi and NCR, mandating their return to original areas post-sterilization and vaccination, excluding rabid or aggressive animals. This decision follows widespread protests against the initial directive to relocate all strays to shelters.  NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court has modified its controversial August 11 order on the removal of stray dogs from Delhi and NCR, clarifying that the animals will be released back into the same areas after sterilisation and immunisation. Dogs infected with rabies or showing aggressive behaviour, however, will not be released and will instead be kept in shelters.The court also barred public feeding of dogs in random areas, instead directing the Municipal Corporation of Delhi (MCD) to create designated feeding spots in every ward. Adoption of dogs by animal lovers has also been opened through applications to the MCD.August 11 – The order that sparked the stormOn 11 August, a bench of Justices J B Pardiwala and R Mahadevan ordered authorities in Delhi, Noida, Ghaziabad, Gurugram and Faridabad to ensure all localities were made free of stray dogs. The judges ruled that captured animals should not be released back on the streets.The court insisted its directions were not “driven by momentary impulse” but after two decades of systematic failure to control the menace of stray dogs. It cited increasing rabies cases, particularly among children, and stressed that the issue struck “at the heart of public safety.”August 12 – Outrage spills onto the streetsJust a day later, protests erupted in Delhi against the order. At Connaught Place, animal lovers staged a demonstration with placards reading “Beware: Kaal Bhairav is watching” and “Stop relocation, we stand in solidarity against the SC verdict.”Clashes broke out with police, who detained about 15 activists. Many were seen in tears, calling the order “childish” and “unworkable.” Nikhil Mahesh of Umeed for Animals Foundation said, “You need an immense land bank… This will only increase panic between people and dogs.”Politicians also joined in. Rahul Gandhi called the directive “a step back from decades of humane, science-backed policy.” Maneka Gandhi described it as “impractical” and “financially unviable,” while Varun Gandhi called it “institutionalisation of cruelty.”Meanwhile, MCD vans were spotted picking up dogs, which officials claimed was part of Independence Day preparations, not related to the court order.August 13 – MCD begins implementationMayor Raja Iqbal Singh announced that 100 stray dogs had already been picked up since the order. The MCD converted 20 Animal Birth Control (ABC) centres into shelters and identified an 85-acre site in outer Delhi for future shelters.Singh said, “We had assured people that we will implement the order 100 per cent. We are getting a lot of calls from residents.” He clarified that aggressive, rabies-infected, or sick dogs would be picked up first.Twenty-five teams were deployed across the city, and a helpline was promised for residents to report stray dogs. Singh added: “This is a people’s government, and this is a priority for us.”Yet activists continued to criticise the move, warning that inadequate shelters would only worsen the problem and harm the animals.August 14 – New bench hears caseA new three-judge bench of Justices Vikram Nath, Sandeep Mehta and N V Anjaria took over the matter. The bench reserved its verdict on petitions challenging the earlier order.“The whole problem is because of inaction of the local authorities,” the bench said, accusing NGOs, the Animal Welfare Board and civic bodies of doing “nothing.” Solicitor General Tushar Mehta warned against ignoring the suffering of “a silent majority,” citing 37.15 lakh dog bites in 2024.Senior advocates Kapil Sibal and Abhishek Singhvi sought a stay on the order, arguing there were no shelters to house such numbers. “The community feeds them. Now you say because the community is feeding them, take them out and put them in pounds or shelters. There are no shelters in place,” Sibal said.August 16 – Police scuffle with protestersTensions escalated when a protest near Lodhi Garden turned violent. A Station House Officer was assaulted, with video showing protesters running toward him as voices shouted “maaro maaro.” Police registered a case under Section 223 of the Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita (BNS).Another case was filed over a protest near Connaught Place’s Hanuman Temple. Officials said demonstrators had gathered without permission, defying prohibitory orders in force ahead of Independence Day.Police confirmed legal action would be taken against those found violating the law, underscoring the increasingly confrontational nature of the standoff.August 17 – Chennai joins the protestProtests spread to Chennai, where animal lovers staged demonstrations against the Supreme Court’s ruling. The rallies came soon after Delhi protests, with participants decrying the “inhuman” nature of the order.Police registered four FIRs against Delhi protesters from August 11–12 who had gathered without permission. Viral videos showed heated exchanges between demonstrators and officers, including one of a Station House Officer being manhandled.The Chennai demonstration marked the first sign that resistance to the ruling was spreading nationally, reinforcing activists’ claims that the order was “regressive” and out of step with India’s long-standing policy of sterilisation and release.August 18 – Siliguri joins inIn Siliguri, demonstrators denounced the ruling as “inhuman.” Activist Anisha Paul said, “Dogs are voiceless creatures… You can spare criminals, so why can’t you spare dogs? Shame on you.”Protesters carried placards demanding compassion for strays, echoing anger from previous days. Meanwhile, police confirmed that earlier Delhi protests had resulted in FIRs for unlawful assembly under Section 163 of BNSS.The demonstration in Siliguri underscored how smaller cities were also becoming centres of organised resistance, fuelled by social media mobilisation and solidarity with Delhi activists.August 19 – Capital erupts againMultiple protests were staged across Delhi, including Malviya Nagar, Dwarka, and Greater Noida. Placards read: “Rapists on bail and dogs in jail,” and “No dog, no vote.”Activist Shikha Singh claimed at least 10,000 shelters would be needed for Delhi’s estimated five lakh dogs, but “such facilities are practically non-existent.” Protesters accused authorities of conducting night raids to pick up dogs, forcing some to patrol neighbourhoods to protect them.Another activist, Mouni Jha, said: “We don’t want shelters for them. They are free to roam like all of us. Shelters mean permanent jail and death for them.”August 20 – Gangtok rally against ‘cruel blow’In Gangtok, hundreds joined a rally from Zero Point to MG Marg. Organiser Jigmee Ladakhi called the order “a cruel blow to the very essence of coexistence.”“If we remain silent today, tomorrow compassion will lose its place in society,” he said, urging justice and protection for community dogs.Slogans of “Voice for the Voiceless” and “We Want Justice” rang out as demonstrators insisted stray dogs were not a burden but protectors of neighbourhoods.August 21 – ‘Black Thursday’ at Jantar MantarAnimal rights activists in Delhi observed a “Black Thursday” at Jantar Mantar, dressed in black and carrying placards like “Vaccinate, sterilise, return not remove” and “Kindness is our strength.”Mukesh Kumar, a 90 per cent disabled activist, said he left home after two years to attend: “Instead of ensuring sterilisation, the government is relocating them.”Protesters pledged to carry out sterilisation drives themselves to create a rabies-free India. Organisers announced that the protest would continue for four days, climaxing in a larger gathering on Saturday.August 22 – Supreme Court modifies orderThe Supreme Court modified its order, directing that stray dogs be released back into their original areas after sterilisation and vaccination, except rabid or aggressive ones. The MCD must create designated feeding areas, while adoption applications can now be filed by animal lovers.Lawyer-petitioner Nanita Sharma hailed it as a “balanced order,” saying all pending matters across states will now be transferred to the apex court. “They have said that regular dogs should be sterilised and aggressive dogs should be put in pounds,” she explained.About the AuthorTOI News DeskThe TOI News Desk comprises a dedicated and tireless team of journalists who operate around the clock to deliver the most current and comprehensive news and updates to the readers of The Times of India worldwide. With an unwavering commitment to excellence in journalism, our team is at the forefront of gathering, verifying, and presenting breaking news, in-depth analysis, and insightful reports on a wide range of topics. The TOI News Desk is your trusted source for staying informed and connected to the ever-evolving global landscape, ensuring that our readers are equipped with the latest developments that matter most."Read More

Watch: Constable caught on video trying to push passenger out of train; RPF says it was at platform

An RPF constable is under investigation after a video surfaced showing him allegedly attempting to push a ticketless passenger off a train at Delhi Sarai Rohilla station on August 18, 2025. While the RPF claims the train was stationary and the constable was removing the man for lack of ID, the video sparked outrage online.

An RPF constable is under investigation after a video surfaced showing him allegedly attempting to push a ticketless passenger off a train at Delhi Sarai Rohilla station on August 18, 2025. While the RPF claims the train was stationary and the constable was removing the man for lack of ID, the video sparked outrage online. . NEW DELHI: A Railway Protection Force (RPF) constable has been accused of trying to push a passenger out of a train, after a video of the incident spread widely on social media. The clip shows the officer slapping a young man, dragging him towards the open door and trying to push him out, as other passengers can be heard objecting. The man was alleged to be travelling without a ticket. Instead of issuing a fine or removing him at the next station, the officer allegedly forced him towards the exit.The video has drawn thousands of reactions on social media, with many demanding strict action from railway authorities.PollHow do you feel about the current safety measures on trains?Adequate and effectiveNeed improvementThe RPF later issued a statement stating that the incident occurred on August 18, 2025, at Delhi Sarai Rohilla station. According to the force, the train had stopped after the chain was pulled, and the constable only tried to remove the passenger when he failed to provide identification. It said the train was at the platform at the time, rejecting claims that the man was about to be pushed from a moving train.Officials said the constable has been moved to the RPF Reserve Line at Daya Basti and a divisional-level inquiry is underway. The investigation is still in progress, and the RPF has said action will be taken once it is complete.About the AuthorTOI News DeskThe TOI News Desk comprises a dedicated and tireless team of journalists who operate around the clock to deliver the most current and comprehensive news and updates to the readers of The Times of India worldwide. With an unwavering commitment to excellence in journalism, our team is at the forefront of gathering, verifying, and presenting breaking news, in-depth analysis, and insightful reports on a wide range of topics. The TOI News Desk is your trusted source for staying informed and connected to the ever-evolving global landscape, ensuring that our readers are equipped with the latest developments that matter most."Read More

Push for handicrafts: Textiles minister Giriraj Singh inaugurates retail hub in Delhi; ‘The Kunj’ envisaged as a model for initiatives nationwide

Union minister Giriraj Singh launched 'The Kunj' in Delhi, a retail and cultural hub showcasing Indian handicrafts and handlooms. This initiative aims to provide artisans with enhanced market access and offer visitors immersive experiences with India's craft heritage. The space features retail showrooms, live demonstrations, workshops, and exhibitions, with plans to replicate this model nationwide to promote traditional crafts.

Union minister Giriraj Singh launched 'The Kunj' in Delhi, a retail and cultural hub showcasing Indian handicrafts and handlooms. This initiative aims to provide artisans with enhanced market access and offer visitors immersive experiences with India's craft heritage. The space features retail showrooms, live demonstrations, workshops, and exhibitions, with plans to replicate this model nationwide to promote traditional crafts. Picture source: X/Giriraj Singh NEW: Union minister of Textiles Giriraj Singh inaugurated a retail and cultural space dedicated to Indian handicrafts and handlooms in Delhi on Thursday.The Kunj, set up in Vasant Kunj by the development commissioner (handicrafts), is designed to give artisans better access to buyers and to let visitors engage more closely with India’s craft traditions.Union Minister Giriraj Singh slams CM Mamata over TMC leader’s alleged warning to CM Yogi The inauguration was attended by senior officials from the ministry of textiles, including the secretary (textiles), development commissioner (handicrafts), and development commissioner (handlooms), along with industry representatives..The Kunj combines retail showrooms, live craft demonstrations, interactive workshops, exhibitions, and a culinary experience. Officials said the three-month inaugural programme will allow visitors to explore a variety of craft forms and interact with artisans directly. During the visit, Union minister Giriraj Singh engaged with artisans, brand owners, and curators. He also inaugurated the newly constructed Shilp Bhawan, the office of the development commissioner (handicrafts). The Kunj is being positioned as a model for similar initiatives across the country, to promote traditional crafts and create contemporary retail opportunities for artisans.About the AuthorTOI News DeskThe TOI News Desk comprises a dedicated and tireless team of journalists who operate around the clock to deliver the most current and comprehensive news and updates to the readers of The Times of India worldwide. With an unwavering commitment to excellence in journalism, our team is at the forefront of gathering, verifying, and presenting breaking news, in-depth analysis, and insightful reports on a wide range of topics. The TOI News Desk is your trusted source for staying informed and connected to the ever-evolving global landscape, ensuring that our readers are equipped with the latest developments that matter most."Read More

Dedicated feeding zones, vaccination & more: Supreme Court’s major order on stray dogs — Key takeaways

The Supreme Court has modified its order regarding stray dogs. The court directs the Municipal Corporation of Delhi to release sterilised and vaccinated dogs back into their localities. Dogs with rabies or aggressive behaviour will be kept separate. Public feeding is prohibited, but designated feeding zones must be created. Animal lovers can adopt strays through the MCD.

The Supreme Court has modified its order regarding stray dogs. The court directs the Municipal Corporation of Delhi to release sterilised and vaccinated dogs back into their localities. Dogs with rabies or aggressive behaviour will be kept separate. Public feeding is prohibited, but designated feeding zones must be created. Animal lovers can adopt strays through the MCD.  NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Friday modified the earlier order passed by its two-judge bench on August 11 and ordered the Municipal Corporation of Delhi (MCD) to release all the picked-up stray dogs in the same locality after sterilisation and immunisation, except those infected with rabies or exhibiting aggressive behaviour.The three-judge bench led by Justice Vikram Nath ordered that all similar matters shall be transferred to the top court for a final national policy. The apex court also directed that no public feeding of dogs will be allowed, and dedicated feeding spaces for stray dogs to be created.The judgment was delivered by a three-judge bench comprising Justices Vikram Nath, Sandeep Mehta, and N V Anjaria, in the suo motu case titled "In Re: City Hounded by Strays, Kids Pay Price."After the last hearing, the top court has suggested some modifications.PollDo you support the Supreme Court's decision to release sterilised and vaccinated stray dogs back to their locality?YesNoKey modifications suggested by Supreme CourtRelease after sterilisation & immunisationThe apex court added that the stray dogs will be released back into the same area once sterilised and vaccinated.ALSO READ: Supreme Court Stray Dogs Hearing Live UpdatesException for rabid or aggressive dogsIt also directed that dogs infected with rabies or showing aggressive behaviour will not be released; they will be kept separately.No public feeding allowedSupreme Court prohibited the feeding of stray dogs in public spaces.Dedicated feeding zonesIt directed the MCD to create designated feeding areas for strays in every municipal ward.Adoption allowed through MCDAnimal lovers may apply to the MCD to adopt stray dogs.Nationwide policy under considerationThe Court issued notices to Animal Husbandry Secretaries of all States and UTs, seeking inputs on a national stray dog policy.Pan-India scope extendedThe order’s ambit has been expanded beyond Delhi-NCR to cover the entire country.High Court cases centralisedAll stray dog-related petitions pending in high courts will be transferred to the Supreme Court.Outrage over August 11 order Earlier on August 14, the same three-judge bench had reserved its order while blaming the inaction and inefficiency of local authorities in implementing Animal Birth Control (ABC) Rules for the proliferation of stray dogs on the streets of NCR.After nationwide outrage over an order passed by a two-judge Bench led by Justice J B Pardiwala earlier on August 11, Chief Justice B R Gavai transferred the case to the three-judge bench.The two-judge bench had ordered municipal bodies in Delhi, Gurugram, Noida, and Ghaziabad to relocate all stray dogs to designated shelters.Ahead of the Supreme Court's verdict on the relocation of stray dogs, a large number of animal activists and caregivers assembled at the Jantar Mantar.About the AuthorTOI News DeskThe TOI News Desk comprises a dedicated and tireless team of journalists who operate around the clock to deliver the most current and comprehensive news and updates to the readers of The Times of India worldwide. With an unwavering commitment to excellence in journalism, our team is at the forefront of gathering, verifying, and presenting breaking news, in-depth analysis, and insightful reports on a wide range of topics. The TOI News Desk is your trusted source for staying informed and connected to the ever-evolving global landscape, ensuring that our readers are equipped with the latest developments that matter most."Read More

Parliament security breach: Man jumps wall, enters premises; what we know so far



Parliament security breach: Man jumps wall, enters premises; what we know so farHybrid security: CISF trains private guards at smaller ports; focus on threat identification, emergency responseWatch: Shubhanshu Shukla shares timelapse video of 'Bharat from space'; captures 'sunrise in orbit''Couldn't tolerate my jovial nature': Tej Pratap Yadav says 5 families conspired to ruin his life; vows to expose them2026 Tamil Nadu election a direct fight between TVK & DMK: VijayUSAID didn't give $21 million for poll turnout: US embassy to Centre1996 dhoti-pulling case against one of BJP's 1st 2 LS MPs dropped“The way her face changed”: Taylor Swift’s expression in a new resurfaced clip with Travis Kelce has made fans emotional'Cracker Barrel goes woke': CEO under MAGA fire for changing logo first time in 48 years, removes 'white guy'USCIS tightens the age-out noose on H-1B kids: How this rule change could derail their college dreamsPakistan SC grants bail to Imran Khan in May 9 cases, but ex-PM stays in jailIndian student arrivals to US crash 46% in July: Here’s how it could cost American students“It’s a war”: Wayne Gretzky’s legacy came under fire amid Donald Trump’s controversial trade war with CanadaTrump admin reviewing 55 million visas: Focus on deportable offences; 6,000 student visas already revokedHoroscope Tomorrow, August 22, 2025: Ketu can cause emotional detachment for these zodiac signs tomorrowTaylor Swift and Travis Kelce spark engagement buzz as fans anticipate big anniversary announcementPatrick Mahomes opens up on father’s DWI arrest and reveals how the incident deeply impacted his familyTired of too many ads?go ad free nowExplore Every CornerAcross The GlobeWayne GretzkyRoblox shutdownSerena WilliamsTaylor SwiftAlligator AlcatrazTVK chief VijayShubhanshu ShuklaBangalore traffic finesRahul DravidJanel GrantIND vs PAK MatchGautam GambhirSachin TendulkarShaquille OnealEric AdamsVillanova University shootingUS Truck Driver VisaAlina HabbaErik MenendezS JaishankarChinaTej Pratap YadavColorado dairy accidentAlligator AlcatrazWashingtonUSAID ClaimBSNLChina ExportDelhi Stray DogsUS Visa HolderAbout usCreate Your Own AdTerms of Use and Grievance Redressal Policy Privacy policyAdvertise with usRSSNewsletterFeedbackePaperSitemapArchivesLiving and EntertainmentCricbuzzLifestyleNewspaper SubscriptionFood NewsTVTimes PrimeTravel DestinationsWhats HotETimesTimes LifeTimes PetsMyLifeXPServicesCouponDuniaTechGigTimesJobsBollywood NewsTimes MobileGadgetsTimes EventsWork with UsColombiaHot on the WebColon Cancer SymptomsKidney HealthAkshay KumarGauri KhanDhanashree VermaRajesh KhannaShah Rukh KhanVivek AgnihotriMagnesium Deficiency SymptomsHeart AttackHigh Blood Sugar SymptomsElvish YadavBeautiful Pet BirdsUSFDA Cookware WarningVitamins For Hair GrowthBelly Fat LossLiver HealthOzempic Vulva Side EffectsJaswinder BhallaHair RegrowthBrain-Eating Amoeba SymptomsMillie Bobby BrownOveractive Bladder SymptomsAngelina JolieYuzvendra ChahalKapil SharmaTaj Mahal Restricted ChambersWar 2 Box Office CollectionCoolie Movie ReviewCoolie Box Office CollectionOvercrowded Tourist DestinationsAshwagandha For MenHigh Protein FoodsKidney Stone PainHigh Cholesterol SymptomsLakshman BootiColorectal CancerOral SymptomsReduce Face Fat DietSide Effects Of BananasGinger Tea Side EffectsKidney Damage SymptomsTrending TopicsOnline Gaming BillDhanashree VermaBabar AzamHTET ResultGATE 2026IBPS Clerk 2025 RegistrationIndian Students in USAWho is DR Pooshan MohapatraMBBS and PG Seats in IndiaSara ErraniNEET PG Answer KeyPragyan OjhaAuston MatthewsRyan GarciaJohn CenaUndertakerCalifornia SchoolsUS Education DepartmentMarco RossiChhattisgarh Man KilledMumbai BEST Election ResultAhmedabad Student MurderRekha Gupta Attack CaseJaswinder BhallaAhmedabad School MurderElvish Yadav House Firing CaseDK ShivakumarSupreme Court Stray Dog VerdictBengaluru Bike TaxiKarnataka E ChallanMustafa SuleymanEpic CEO FaulknerCoconut Water For Kidney PatientsApple iPhone 17Bill GatesIBM and NASA Unveil SuryaKairan QuaziNyt ConnectionsStarlink To Use AadhaarOpenai Cfo Sarah FriarGoogle Pixel 10 Pro FoldWordle TodayPopular CategoriesHeadlinesSports NewsBusiness NewsIndia NewsWorld NewsBollywood NewsHealth+ TipsIndian TV ShowsTechnologyTravelEtimesHealth & FitnessNFLAugust Long Weekend 2025India vs EnglandAstrologyWeather TodayPlatinum Rate TodaySilver Rate TodayGold Rate TodayIs Bank open todayIs Bank Open TomorrowBank Holidays in AugustPublic Holidays in AugustStock Market HolidaysFinancial CalculatorsTechnology NewsInternational SportsPublic HolidaysBank HolidaysLatest NewsOver 20% of Russia's war-period crude exports! India bought about Rs 13.39 lakh crore in Russian oil; trails China’s Rs 193 billionUAE’s gold reserves surge nearly 26% in 2025 amid robust banking sector growthRajinikanth’s ‘Jailer 2’ builds hype, Suraj Venjaramoodu joins the star castVishnu Manchu to invest big in Microdramas: Rs. 100 crore digital venture after 'Kannappa' success - Report'Pongala' teaser unleashes raw gangster world; Sreenath Bhasi shines in action-hero avatar - WATCHMeta hires Apple’s top AI executive Frank Chu as company tells managers to prioritize….‘Coolie’ beats ‘Robot’ as Rajinikanth’s 2nd biggest Hindi hitIndia’s Q1 FY26 growth projected at 6.7%; in line with RBI forecast: PollUttar Pradesh: Domestic help caught urinating on utensils in Bijnor; arrestedWhy is Final Fantasy 14 being review bombed on Steam?Watch: Constable caught on video trying to push passenger out of train; RPF says it was at platform'Kaithi' 2 faces delay, Karthi likely to team up with Sundar C, Fans await updates on 'Vaa Vaathiyaar' & 'Sardar 2'‘Carry On Jatta’ to ‘Jihne Mera Dil Luteya’: Here are Jaswinder Bhalla's most loved movies to remember him byPerformative male: Men, curated to your tasteNo bilateral matches with Pakistan: India issues new sports policyGanesh Chaturthi 2025 in US: Date, shubh muhurat, rituals, traditions, and how to celebrate the Hindu festival‘Continue to pose an unreasonable risk’: Erik Menendez denied parole after nearly 36 years in jail for parents’ murders; misconduct in prison citedUP Cow Commission, Patanjali join hands to promote cow protection and rural industriesCopyright © 2025 Bennett, Coleman & Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. For reprint rights: Times Syndication ServiceFollow Us On 

Hybrid security: CISF trains private guards at smaller ports; focus on threat identification, emergency response



Hybrid security: CISF trains private guards at smaller ports; focus on threat identification, emergency responseBharti Jain / TNN / Updated: Aug 22, 2025, 10:36 ISTShareAA+Text SizeSmallMediumLarge Representational image (Source: X/CISF) NEW DELHI: The Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), which secures 13 major ports of the country, is working on a hybrid port security model, as part of which it has begun imparting specialised training to private security personnel deployed at the smaller ports.The first-ever specialised training module for private port security personnel was recently launched by CISF at the Jawaharlal Nehru Ports Authority (JNPA) and the Chennai Port Authority (ChPA). The two-week ‘port facility security course’, designed by CISF in consultation with the directorate general of shipping and other stakeholders, will equip private security personnel with essential knowledge of port operations, threat identification and emergency response. It will also focus on standardisation of port security protocols, compliance with international maritime codes across all the ports, legal frameworks and optimal use of technical gadgets.Renuka Chowdhury, Priyanka Chaturvedi Explode Over CISF Role Against Women MPs in Rajya SabhaDuring the pilot phase, 40 private security personnel from three major ports — JNPA Sheva, DPA Kandla and MPA Mumbai – will be trained at JNPA training facility, Mumbai and 26 private security personnel from four major ports—New Mangalore Port Authority (NMPA), Kamarajar Port Limited (KPL) Ennore, Chennai Port Authority (ChPA), and V O Chidambaranar Port Authority (VOCPA) Tuticorin— at the ChPA training centre, Chennai. CISF plans to extend the course to other ports across both coasts in the coming months.The training initiative comes amid heightened maritime security concerns in view of the prevailing geopolitical situation. A CISF spokesperson on Thursday said the ‘port facility security course’ represents a strategic step to build resilience against evolving threats, while bolstering India’s role in safeguarding maritime trade in the Indian Ocean region.To be delivered by instructors from CISF, customs, marine department, and port health organisation, the program combines classroom learning with hands-on drills, preparing participants to respond effectively to security incidents.During the inaugural session at ChPA, CISF Inspector-General S R Saravanan said that “focused training tailored to the complex environment of ports, will empower security personnel to perform their duties with confidence and professionalism, ultimately safeguarding critical infrastructure and trade.”About the AuthorBharti JainBharti Jain is senior editor with The Times of India, New Delhi. She has been writing on security matters since 1996. Having covered the Union home ministry, security agencies, Election Commission and the ‘prime’ political beat, the Congress, for The Economic Times all these years, she moved to TOI in August 2012. Her repertoire of news stories delves into the whole gamut of issues related to terrorism and internal strife, besides probing strategic affairs in India’s neighbourhood.Read More

Watch: Shubhanshu Shukla shares timelapse video of 'Bharat from space'; captures 'sunrise in orbit'

Indian astronaut Shubhanshu Shukla shared a stunning timelapse video of India from the ISS, showcasing thunderstorms, the Himalayas, and a sunrise. He emphasized the mission's significance for India, expressing gratitude to all involved. ISRO highlighted the mission as a milestone, reflecting India's rapid advancements and global collaboration in space technology.

Indian astronaut Shubhanshu Shukla shared a stunning timelapse video of India from the ISS, showcasing thunderstorms, the Himalayas, and a sunrise. He emphasized the mission's significance for India, expressing gratitude to all involved. ISRO highlighted the mission as a milestone, reflecting India's rapid advancements and global collaboration in space technology.  NEW DELHI: Astronaut Shubhanshu Shukla on Friday shared a breathtaking timelapse video of India from space, offering citizens a glimpse of his journey aboard the International Space Station (ISS).Posting the clip on X, Shukla wrote: “Watch the video in landscape with screen brightness high. While on orbit I tried to capture pictures and videos so that I can share this journey with you all. This is a timelapse video of Bharat from space. The ISS is moving from south to north from the Indian Ocean, along the east coast of India.”He explained that the purple flashes seen in the video were thunderstorms across the country, followed by the Himalayas fading into view, and then a sunrise over the orbit — all against the backdrop of shimmering stars. “It truly is a mesmerising dance of natural elements turning into one beautiful spectacle,” Shukla wrote, adding that despite heavy monsoon clouds he managed to “steal a few shots of Bharat.”"Unfortunately I was up there during the monsoon season and it was mostly cloudy, yet I managed to steal a few shots of Bharat, one of which you are seeing. When you see this I want you to feel as if you are sitting in the cupola((window in ISS) and witnessing it yourself," Shukla added. On Thursday, Shukla addressed a press conference in Delhi alongside Union minister Jitendra Singh and ISRO officials, where he described the Axiom-4 mission as a historic achievement and a “mission for the entire nation.” Expressing gratitude to the government, ISRO scientists, researchers and citizens, he said: “I truly felt that this was a mission owned by every Indian.”The astronaut recalled his emotions while viewing Earth from orbit, remarking, “Bharat aaj bhi antariksha se saare jahan se achha dikhta hai.”Sharing mission details, Shukla noted that the crew travelled aboard SpaceX’s Crew Dragon atop a Falcon 9 rocket from Cape Canaveral, spent two weeks at the ISS conducting experiments, and returned via the Pacific Ocean near San Diego.ISRO Chairman V Narayanan hailed the mission as a prestigious milestone, highlighting India’s rapid progress in space technology over the past decade. He pointed to recent successes such as the GSLV-F16 launch of the NASA-ISRO Synthetic Aperture Radar satellite and the growth of India’s private space ecosystem from a single startup to more than 300 today.The Axiom-4 mission, he said, underlined India’s rising global stature in space exploration and collaboration.About the AuthorTOI News DeskThe TOI News Desk comprises a dedicated and tireless team of journalists who operate around the clock to deliver the most current and comprehensive news and updates to the readers of The Times of India worldwide. With an unwavering commitment to excellence in journalism, our team is at the forefront of gathering, verifying, and presenting breaking news, in-depth analysis, and insightful reports on a wide range of topics. The TOI News Desk is your trusted source for staying informed and connected to the ever-evolving global landscape, ensuring that our readers are equipped with the latest developments that matter most."Read More

'Couldn't tolerate my jovial nature': Tej Pratap Yadav says 5 families conspired to ruin his life; vows to expose them

Tej Pratap Yadav, expelled from RJD, alleges a conspiracy by five powerful families to ruin his political and personal life. He promises to expose them, claiming they were jealous of his popularity and colluded with BJP and RSS to tarnish his image. This follows his expulsion from RJD and the launch of his own political outfit.

Tej Pratap Yadav, expelled from RJD, alleges a conspiracy by five powerful families to ruin his political and personal life. He promises to expose them, claiming they were jealous of his popularity and colluded with BJP and RSS to tarnish his image. This follows his expulsion from RJD and the launch of his own political outfit.  NEW DELHI: Expelled RJD leader and former Bihar minister Tej Pratap Yadav on Thursday alleged that five powerful families conspired against him to destroy both his political and personal life. The elder son of RJD chief Lalu Prasad Yadav claimed he would soon reveal their identities.'Threat To Life, But Not Scared': Tej Pratap's Explosive Revelation, Throws Challenge to RJD Leaders“Five families together and in a broader conspiracy tried to end my political life. In my more than ten years of political life, I have never wronged anyone, nor have I ever conspired against anyone. But these five families have made every effort to destroy my political and family life completely,” Tej Pratap wrote on X.He further said, “Tomorrow (Friday), I will bring the faces and characters of all five families before the public. I am going to expose each of their conspiracies tomorrow.”On Wednesday, Tej Pratap had also posted, “Five people worked together to completely ruin my life... They could not tolerate my jovial nature and hence made such allegations to ruin my career. I will go to court and file a case too... I think these people took money from RSS and BJP and tried to tarnish my image because they saw that elections are coming and there is a craze among the youth for me. I will soon put the names of these people from five families in front of everyone... These conspirators have a gang from Patna to Delhi... They used to be in RJD but were expelled due to their misdeeds... These individuals have no other job except to be constantly active on social media, using it to tarnish the image of others...”Tej Pratap’s remarks come months after his father Lalu Prasad expelled him from the Rashtriya Janata Dal and “family” for six years in May, after a controversial Facebook post claimed he had been in a 12-year-long relationship with a woman named Anushka Yadav. Tej Pratap later alleged that his Facebook account had been hacked and that the post was part of a conspiracy against him.Following his expulsion, Tej Pratap launched a separate political outfit under the banner of ‘Team Tej Pratap Yadav’ and aligned with five smaller parties to contest the upcoming 2025 Bihar assembly elections. He has been campaigning aggressively across the state, often calling his rivals “Jaychand” (traitors).Lalu Prasad earlier in May had justified the expulsion by saying, “Ignoring moral values in personal life weakens our collective struggle for social justice. The actions, public conduct, and irresponsible behavior of my eldest son are not in accordance with our family’s principles. Therefore, under these circumstances, I am removing him from the party and the family.”Tej Pratap’s younger brother and leader of opposition in Bihar, Tejashwi Yadav, had said at the time that while the party would not tolerate such controversies, his brother was “an adult and free to make decisions.”About the AuthorTOI News DeskThe TOI News Desk comprises a dedicated and tireless team of journalists who operate around the clock to deliver the most current and comprehensive news and updates to the readers of The Times of India worldwide. With an unwavering commitment to excellence in journalism, our team is at the forefront of gathering, verifying, and presenting breaking news, in-depth analysis, and insightful reports on a wide range of topics. The TOI News Desk is your trusted source for staying informed and connected to the ever-evolving global landscape, ensuring that our readers are equipped with the latest developments that matter most."Read More

2026 Tamil Nadu election a direct fight between TVK & DMK: Vijay



2026 Tamil Nadu election a direct fight between TVK & DMK: VijayVivanesh Parthiban / TNN / Updated: Aug 22, 2025, 10:14 ISTShareAA+Text SizeSmallMediumLarge  MADURAI: TVK chief Vijay on Thursday positioned himself as the alternative to “Stalin uncle” saying the 2026 assembly election would be a straight fight between his party and DMK.In a fiery 34-minute speech at TVK’s second state conference at Parapathi, Madurai, Vijay accused DMK of hypocrisy. “You ask women to call you appa (father), but there is no safety for women themselves,” he said addressing Stalin, before asking the crowd if DMK had fulfilled its promises. As they shouted “no,” he said, “Stalin uncle, hear the noise of the people.”BJP, AIADMK Stitch Alliance to Contest 2026 Tamil Nadu Assembly Polls TogetherOn DMK’s approach to BJP, Vijay accused the ruling party of shifting positions. “When in opposition, they flew black balloons against Modi. Now, as the ruling party, they welcome him. Whenever ED raids take place, they rush to Delhi and the raids fade away. Stalin uncle, what uncle? It is very wrong uncle,” he said, and the gathered cadres burst into laughter.The TVK chief also posed pointed questions to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, asking whether he had come to power for the third time “to do good for the people or to plot something against the Muslim community”. He pressed Centre to retrieve Katchatheevu island, withdraw NEET and resolve the plight of “around 800 fishermen” arrested by the Sri Lankan Navy. He accused BJP of hiding facts about the Keeladi excavations and depending on “alliance partners without real people power” to extend its rule till 2029.Without naming AIADMK, Vijay said BJP was using the party once nurtured by M G Ramachandran as a “backdoor to enter Tamil Nadu”. He said that even that party’s cadres were upset with their present state.TVK, he said, would be a “truly secular party” that would never have any hidden tie-up with BJP. He added that alliances under TVK would give equal power to partners.Indirectly addressing critics, Vijay said, “A lion comes to the ground only to hunt, not to pass time. Even if it is single, it will be the king of the jungle. It is not just a description but a clear declaration.” He greeted his cadres as “lion cubs” and described TVK as an “army of common people.”Vijay said TVK had already created “ripples” in state politics. “Many said I will not enter politics, then that I will not get support, then that I cannot conduct a conference. Now they say I cannot win elections. They also say this crowd may not translate into votes. To those analysts, I say — this crowd is not just support, we have already entered every household in the state.”He emphasised that the safety of women, children and the elderly would be TVK’s top priority, and pledged welfare measures for youth, farmers, labourers, weavers, fisherfolk, the disabled, elderly and transpersons.Amid cheers, Vijay made a surprise announcement, saying he would contest from Madurai East constituency in 2026. After a short pause, Vijay named all the nine remaining constituencies and asked people to assume that he himself is contesting in all 234 assembly constituencies in the state.In a symbolic gesture, he sang an MGR song from the movie ‘Enga Veetu Pillai’, asking whether people could “take the whip of politics” and use it against both BJP and DMK.Vijay concluded with a parting shot at stereotypes about actors in politics. “Leaders such as Ambedkar, Kamaraj and Nallakannu were defeated by politicians, not by cinema actors. Not all politicians are knowledgeable, and not every actor is an idiot,” he declared, drawing loud applause.

