https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/world/europe/6-year-old-pio-girl-and-indian-chef-latest-to-be-attacked-in-ireland/articleshow/123149221.cms

6-year-old PIO girl and Indian chef latest to be attacked in Ireland

A six-year-old Indian-origin girl in Waterford City was racially abused and physically assaulted by a group of teenagers, prompting outrage. In a separate incident, Laxman Das, an Indian sous chef in Dublin, was attacked and robbed while going to work. These incidents follow a series of recent assaults targeting Indians in Ireland, raising concerns about racism.

A six-year-old Indian-origin girl in Waterford City was racially abused and physically assaulted by a group of teenagers, prompting outrage. In a separate incident, Laxman Das, an Indian sous chef in Dublin, was attacked and robbed while going to work. These incidents follow a series of recent assaults targeting Indians in Ireland, raising concerns about racism.  TOI correspondent from London: A six-year-old Indian-origin girl and an Indian sous chef are the latest victims in the ongoing spate of racist attacks targeting Indian nationals and Indian-origin Irish people in Ireland.The girl, whose family hail from Kottayam, Kerala, was playing outside her house in Waterford City, southeast Ireland, with friends at 7.30pm on Monday evening when a gang of boys and one girl called her a “dirty Indian” and told her to “go back to India”. She was born in Ireland. Five of the gang also punched her in the face, hit her private parts with a bicycle, punched her neck and twisted her hair.Her mother moved to Ireland eight years ago from Kottayam to work as a nurse with her husband and recently became an Irish citizen.The mother said the gang was made up of boys aged 12 to 14 and a girl aged eight. She said her daughter came home in floods of tears and is now too scared to play outside. She told the Irish Mirror: “I never expected that such an incident would happen. I thought she would be safe here. Even in front of our own house she can’t play safely. I am a nurse, I am doing my best to take care of people. I do my work and I am 100% professional. I changed my citizenship, but still we are called dirty people and even my kids are not safe. We came here to fill a labour gap. We are professionals — we have all the certificates…”The mother studied BSc Nursing at University of Calicut and went to Mount Carmel Higher Secondary School in Kottayam.“Gardaí (Irish national police) responded to a report of an alleged assault in the Kilbarry area of Waterford city on the evening of Monday 4 August. Investigations are ongoing,” a Garda spokesperson told TOI.On Wednesday morning Laxman Das from Kolkata, who works as a sous chef at the Anantara The Marker Dublin hotel, was assaulted near the Hilton Hotel by three people while on his way to work. He was taken to St Vincent's University Hospital. His phone, cash and electric bike were stolen.These come following a spate of attacks against Indians in Ireland in recent weeks — on July 19, July 24, July 27, and on Aug 1 when a cab driver was assaulted.The Gardaí said they are still investigating these attacks and no one has been arrested.

