https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/world/us/among-fbis-ten-most-wanted-fugitives-caught-woman-accused-of-sons-murder-hiding-in-india-arrested-who-is-cindy-rodriguez-singh/articleshow/123420228.cms

Among FBI's 'most wanted fugitive': Who is Cindy Rodriguez Singh? Woman accused of killing son, caught in India



Among FBI's 'most wanted fugitive': Who is Cindy Rodriguez Singh? Woman accused of killing son, caught in IndiaTOI World Desk / TIMESOFINDIA.COM / Updated: Aug 21, 2025, 06:32 ISTShareAA+Text SizeSmallMediumLarge Cindy Rodriguez Singh (Pic credit: FBI) The FBI arrested Cindy Rodriguez Singh, one of its “Ten Most Wanted Fugitives,” in India in connection with the murder of her 6-year-old son, Noel Rodriguez Alvarez.  Rodriguez Singh had been wanted for the 2022 murder of her son and was placed on the FBI’s most wanted list. On October 3, 2024, Interpol issued a Red Notice against her, which was circulated to all member countries, including India.Singh has been transported to the United States and will be turned over to Texas authorities. Rodriguez Singh was added to the "most wanted" list in July this year. FBI had also raised the reward for information leading to her arrest from $25,000 to $250,000. Fox News Digital reported that Rodriguez Singh was facing an active federal warrant for “unlawful flight to avoid prosecution” and a Texas state warrant for “capital murder of a person under 10 years of age.” Authorities said Noel was one of ten children born to Rodriguez Singh. While three siblings lived with their grandparents, the others stayed with her and her husband, Arshdeep Singh, in Everman, a suburb of Fort Worth under squalid conditions. Investigators said Arshdeep Singh, Noel’s stepfather, was of Indian origin. They believed Rodriguez Singh fled the US with him and six of her children to India. Just days after Noel was officially reported missing, the couple and their children boarded a one-way flight to India on March 22, 2023. Noel was not on that flight and had not been seen since.About the AuthorTOI World DeskAt TOI World Desk, our dedicated team of seasoned journalists and passionate writers tirelessly sifts through the vast tapestry of global events to bring you the latest news and diverse perspectives round the clock. With an unwavering commitment to accuracy, depth, and timeliness, we strive to keep you informed about the ever-evolving world, delivering a nuanced understanding of international affairs to our readers. Join us on a journey across continents as we unravel the stories that shape our interconnected world.Read More

