https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/nri/us-canada-news/indian-diaspora-floods-new-york-streets-for-independence-day-celebrations/articleshow/123360581.cms

Indian Diaspora floods New York streets for Independence Day celebrations

The parade was organised by the Federation of Indian Associations (FIA). Its chairman, Ankur Vaidya, said the event reflected both pride and responsibility. "It's a proud moment to be here with our fellow community members. A large diaspora has turned up for the celebrations... India is about to become the third-largest economy, so it is the responsibility of every diaspora member to act as a bridge between the two countries," he said.

The parade was organised by the Federation of Indian Associations (FIA). Its chairman, Ankur Vaidya, said the event reflected both pride and responsibility. "It's a proud moment to be here with our fellow community members. A large diaspora has turned up for the celebrations... India is about to become the third-largest economy, so it is the responsibility of every diaspora member to act as a bridge between the two countries," he said.This year's parade featured actors Rashmika Mandanna and Vijay Deverakonda as Grand Marshals. Several dignitaries, including Congressman Shri Thanedar and New York City Mayor Eric Adams, also joined the celebrations.The Consulate General of India in New York showcased a float themed "Viksit Bharat 2047", highlighting India's vision of becoming a developed nation by the centenary of its independence. The display reflected the country's advances in technology, infrastructure, and digital transformation.The celebrations also coincided with Shri Krishna Janmashtami, marked by a Rath Yatra organised by ISKCON New York, which drew hundreds of devotees.In a post on X, the Consulate wrote, "Celebrating the 79th Independence Day at the India Day Parade in New York, the largest parade celebration outside India. We extend our sincere thanks to Congressman Shri Thanedar, Mayor Eric Adams, and Member of Parliament Shri Satnam Singh Sandhu, along with other dignitaries, for joining the celebrations. A special thanks to the Federation of Indian Associations NY-NJ-NE for organising the 43rd India Day Parade with such grandeur and enthusiasm."

