https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/science/who-is-arvinder-singh-bahal-indianorigin-businessman-heading-to-space-with-blue-origin-licensed-pilot-and-globetrotter/articleshow/123072772.cms

Who is Arvinder Singh Bahal? Indian‑origin businessman heading to space with Blue Origin

Indian-origin Arvinder Singh Bahal, a US citizen, is set to journey to the edge of space aboard Blue Origin's upcoming flight. The 79-year-old real estate investor from Agra, nicknamed 'Arvi,' will join a diverse crew of six, including individuals from Turkey, Puerto Rico, England, China and America.

Indian-origin Arvinder Singh Bahal, a US citizen, is set to journey to the edge of space aboard Blue Origin's upcoming flight. The 79-year-old real estate investor from Agra, nicknamed 'Arvi,' will join a diverse crew of six, including individuals from Turkey, Puerto Rico, England, China and America. Arvinder Singh Bahal Indian-origin Arvinder Singh Bahal, a naturalized US citizen, is set to soar to the edge of space on the upcoming space tourism flight of Blue Origin, the private aerospace company founded by billionaire Jeff Bezos. Bahal will be part of a diverse six-member crew. The line-up includes Gökhan Erdem, a Turkish businessman, space enthusiast and photographer; Deborah Martorell, a Puerto Rican meteorologist and journalist; and Lionel Pitchford from England, who has worked as a teacher, translator, and tour guide in Spain for over four decades.Also joining the mission are JD Russell, an American serial entrepreneur and founder of the tech-focused venture capital firm Alpha Funds, and Justin Sun, a Chinese crypto billionaire and founder of TRON, a blockchain-based decentralized platform.About Arvinder Singh BahalBahal, who is nicknamed "Arvi," is 79-years-old, and was born in Agra, Uttar Pradesh. He is a real estate investor by profession."A lifelong traveller and adventurer, 'Arvi' has visited every country in the world, the North and South Poles, and skydived Mount Everest and the Pyramids of Giza,” the Blue Origin statement read.“He holds a private pilot’s license and also flies helicopters,” it added.The missionBlue Origin's New Shepard rocket carrying the crew will lift off from the company's Launch Site One (Corn Ranch) near Van Horn, Texas, on Sunday. The launch window opens at 7:30 am CDT / 12:30 pm UTC (6 pm in India).The rocket has taken 70 people above the Kármán line (the internationally recognised boundary of space) before the current mission.The flight, Blue Origin's 14th crewed one to to suborbital space, will last 11 minutes. It will be New Shepard's 34th mission and its fifth this year.About the AuthorTOI Science DeskThe TOI Science Desk stands as an inquisitive team of journalists, ceaselessly delving into the realms of discovery to curate a captivating collection of news, features, and articles from the vast and ever-evolving world of science for the readers of The Times of India. Consider us your scientific companion, delivering a daily dose of wonder and enlightenment. Whether it's the intricacies of genetic engineering, the marvels of space exploration, or the latest in artificial intelligence, the TOI Science Desk ensures you stay connected to the pulse of the scientific world. At the TOI Science Desk, we are not just reporters; we are storytellers of scientific narratives. We are committed to demystifying the intricacies of science, making it accessible and engaging for readers of all backgrounds. Join us as we craft knowledge with precision and passion, bringing you on a journey where the mysteries of the universe unfold with every word.Read More

