https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/sports/cricket/asia-cup/asia-cup-yashasvi-jaiswal-is-better-than-shubman-gill-ex-india-batter-sparks-selection-debate/articleshow/123448601.cms

'Jaiswal is better than Gill'- Ex India batter sparks selection debate

The selection of India's Asia Cup 2025 squad is creating controversy. Yashasvi Jaiswal is surprisingly left out. Shubman Gill makes a comeback to the T20I team. He is also appointed as the vice-captain. Experts are questioning Jaiswal's exclusion despite his strong performance. Sai Sudharsan's omission is also raising concerns. Subramaniam Badrinath highlights potential recency bias in the selection process.

The selection of India's Asia Cup 2025 squad is creating controversy. Yashasvi Jaiswal is surprisingly left out. Shubman Gill makes a comeback to the T20I team. He is also appointed as the vice-captain. Experts are questioning Jaiswal's exclusion despite his strong performance. Sai Sudharsan's omission is also raising concerns. Subramaniam Badrinath highlights potential recency bias in the selection process.  Shubman Gill and Yashasvi Jaiswal India’s Asia Cup 2025 squad has stirred debate after the omission of star opener Yashasvi Jaiswal, leaving fans and former cricketers questioning the selection choices. Shubman Gill returns to the T20I squad for the first time since July 2024, and the BCCI has handed him the vice-captaincy role, a clear sign of faith in the youngster’s leadership. Jaiswal, who has been a key figure in India’s T20 set-up, was named among the reserve players despite his impressive record. He has scored 723 runs in 23 T20Is, including a century and five fifties at a strike rate of over 164. In the IPL 2025, he continued his excellent form, scoring 559 runs in 14 matches with six half-centuries at a strike rate of 160. His omission has raised eyebrows among cricket experts.Go Beyond The Boundary with our YouTube channel. SUBSCRIBE NOW! Former Chennai Super Kings player Subramaniam Badrinath weighed in on the decision, calling it a positive move to back Shubman Gill, but questioning the rationale behind leaving out players like Jaiswal and Sai Sudharsan.“I see this mostly as a positive that they are backing a youngster and projecting him for the future. But what about Yashasvi Jaiswal? He has done even better than Shubman Gill. Also, why has Sai Sudharsan missed out after scoring 700 runs in IPL 2025 and performing better than Shubman Gill? Sanju Samson himself is now in doubt to start in the playing 11,” Badrinath said on his YouTube channel.PollDo you agree with the exclusion of Yashasvi Jaiswal from India's Asia Cup 2025 squad?Yes, it was the right decision.No, he should have been included. Badrinath further questioned whether the selection was influenced by recency bias, a trend often seen in Indian cricket where players performing well in the immediate past are preferred, even if their overall numbers are stronger. He added, “So while backing Shubman Gill, you ask what wrong have Yashasvi Jaiswal and Sai Sudharsan done when their numbers are better than Gill’s. It’s not a bad decision but one that’s 50-50.”While Shubman Gill’s leadership and experience are valued, many feel that Yashasvi Jaiswal’s consistency and impact make him deserving of a more prominent role. Most likely, India will open the innings with Shubman Gill and Abhishek Sharma, leaving the middle order to accommodate other key batters, including Sanju Samson, who may have to adapt to a new role.Catch Rani Rampal's inspiring story on Game On, Episode 4. Watch Here!About the AuthorTOI Sports DeskThe TOI Sports Desk excels in a myriad of roles that capture the essence of live sporting events and deliver compelling content to readers worldwide. 

From running live blogs for India and non-India cricket matches to global spectacles featuring Indian talents, like the Chess World Cup final featuring Praggnanandhaa and the Badminton World Championships semifinal featuring HS Prannoy, our live coverage extends to all mega sporting events. We extensively cover events like the Olympics, Asian Games, Cricket World Cups, FIFA World Cups, and more. 

The desk is also adept at writing comprehensive match reports and insightful post-match commentary, complemented by stats-based articles that provide an in-depth analysis of player performances and team dynamics. 

We track news wires for key stories, conduct exclusive player interviews in both text and video formats, and file content from print editions and reporters. We keep track of all viral stories, trending topics and produce our own copies on the subjects. 

We deliver accurate, engaging, and up-to-the-minute sports content, round the clock.Read More

