https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/sports/cricket/news/rinku-singh-in-beast-mode-8-sixes-108-off-48-turns-on-explosive-mode-before-asia-cup-watch/articleshow/123442469.cms

Beast mode ON! Rinku Singh hammers 108 off 48 before Asia Cup

Rinku Singh celebrated his Asia Cup selection by smashing a blistering 108 off 48 balls in the UPT20 League, leading Meerut Mavericks to a six-wicket victory over Gorakhpur Lions after they were struggling at 38/4. In another match, Karan Sharma and Abhishek Goswami's half-centuries propelled Kashi Rudras to an 88-run win against Noida Kings.

Rinku Singh celebrated his Asia Cup selection by smashing a blistering 108 off 48 balls in the UPT20 League, leading Meerut Mavericks to a six-wicket victory over Gorakhpur Lions after they were struggling at 38/4. In another match, Karan Sharma and Abhishek Goswami's half-centuries propelled Kashi Rudras to an 88-run win against Noida Kings. Rinku Singh (Image credit: X) NEW DELHI: Cometh the hour, cometh Rinku Singh. The explosive batter marked his selection in India’s Asia Cup squad with a stunning century in the UPT20 League at Ekana Stadium on Thursday. Turning out for Meerut Mavericks, Rinku smashed 108 off just 48 deliveries, peppered with seven fours and eight towering sixes, at a breathtaking strike rate of 225. His heroics powered the Mavericks to a six-wicket win over Gorakhpur Lions.Chasing 168, the Mavericks were in deep trouble at 38/4 in the eighth over when Rinku walked in. What followed was pure carnage. He tore into the Lions’ attack, adding 130 runs off 65 balls with Sahab Yuvraj (22) for the fifth wicket, and sealed victory with seven balls to spare.India Asia Cup squad: Why Shreyas Iyer and Shubman Gill are biggest talking pointsGo Beyond The Boundary with our YouTube channel. SUBSCRIBE NOW!Earlier, Gorakhpur Lions lost opener Aryan Juyal in the very first over to Vishal Chaudhary. Skipper Dhruv Jurel (38) and Akshdeep Nath (23) steadied the innings with a 45-run stand, before Nishant Kushwaha’s 37 lifted the Lions to a competitive 167.In another match, skipper Karan Sharma and Abhishek Goswami struck fluent half-centuries to guide Kashi Rudras to their third successive win, thrashing Noida Kings by 88 runs. Kashi’s disciplined bowling unit then skittled Noida for just 85 in 12 overs.Batting first, Goswami (50) and Karan (58) shared an 85-run opening stand off 60 balls. Shubham Chaubey chipped in with a brisk 30 off 18 to push Kashi to 173/6. In reply, Noida collapsed under relentless pressure. Kartik Yadav bagged four wickets, while Shiva picked up two to complete the rout.Catch Rani Rampal's inspiring story on Game On, Episode 4. Watch Here!About the AuthorTOI Sports DeskThe TOI Sports Desk excels in a myriad of roles that capture the essence of live sporting events and deliver compelling content to readers worldwide. 

From running live blogs for India and non-India cricket matches to global spectacles featuring Indian talents, like the Chess World Cup final featuring Praggnanandhaa and the Badminton World Championships semifinal featuring HS Prannoy, our live coverage extends to all mega sporting events. We extensively cover events like the Olympics, Asian Games, Cricket World Cups, FIFA World Cups, and more. 

The desk is also adept at writing comprehensive match reports and insightful post-match commentary, complemented by stats-based articles that provide an in-depth analysis of player performances and team dynamics. 

We track news wires for key stories, conduct exclusive player interviews in both text and video formats, and file content from print editions and reporters. We keep track of all viral stories, trending topics and produce our own copies on the subjects. 

We deliver accurate, engaging, and up-to-the-minute sports content, round the clock.Read More

