https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/sports/cricket/news/broke-all-bones-taylor-swifts-hilarious-mix-up-resurfaces-kevin-pietersen-teases-pop-star/articleshow/123452085.cms

'Broke all bones': Taylor Swift's hilarious mix-up; Kevin Pietersen teases star

Pop icon Taylor Swift once appeared on The Graham Norton Show. She shared the couch with former England cricketer Kevin Pietersen. During the show, Swift admitted she was a bit confused by cricket. The exchange resurfaced on social media, as Swift's opinions on the sport and a hilarious mix-up with rugby once again, amused fans.

Pop icon Taylor Swift once appeared on The Graham Norton Show. She shared the couch with former England cricketer Kevin Pietersen. During the show, Swift admitted she was a bit confused by cricket. The exchange resurfaced on social media, as Swift's opinions on the sport and a hilarious mix-up with rugby once again, amused fans. Taylor Swift and Kevin Pietersen (Images via AP & Screengrab/YouTube) Pop icon Taylor Swift once admitted to being baffled by cricket during an appearance on The Graham Norton Show, where she shared the couch with former England cricketer Kevin Pietersen. The exchange, which aired in 2014, resurfaced for the singer’s candid and light-heartedly hilarious remarks about the sport. At the time, Pietersen was promoting his autobiography KP: The Autobiography, which revisited the infamous “textgate” controversy of 2012. The former England batter faced pointed questions from Norton about sending provocative messages to members of the South African team during a Test series, a scandal that tainted his relationship with then-captain Andrew Strauss.Go Beyond The Boundary with our YouTube channel. SUBSCRIBE NOW! While the discussion turned serious for Pietersen, Swift admitted she was still trying to wrap her head around the game. “I’ve never been to a cricket match,” she confessed, before adding, “But I went to Lord’s today.” Pietersen jumped at the chance to tease her. “If you Google ‘cricket’, you will get a result that ‘Lord’s is the home of cricket.’ So Taylor walked through the door at Lord’s, and said: ‘Cricket, of course I know who you are’. ‘No, you don’t! You don’t know what cricket is!’” he joked. Swift defended herself, describing her limited understanding of the sport. “I know what cricket is. I know it’s relatively violent,” she said, drawing laughter from the audience. She went on to explain where the impression came from. “In an episode of the popular sitcom Friends, Ross Geller is dating an English girl, and in a scene Ross joins his girlfriend’s friends in a game of cricket. He tries to play and he breaks all the bones in his body! It’s wild,” Swift recalled.PollWhich sport do you think is more complex to understand: cricket or rugby?CricketRugbyNeither, they're both simple To this, the host Graham Norton responded with amusement: “Wasn’t that rugby?” Swift too, accepted that she got the two mixed up with an awkward smile on her face.Catch Rani Rampal's inspiring story on Game On, Episode 4. Watch Here!About the AuthorTOI Sports DeskThe TOI Sports Desk excels in a myriad of roles that capture the essence of live sporting events and deliver compelling content to readers worldwide. 

From running live blogs for India and non-India cricket matches to global spectacles featuring Indian talents, like the Chess World Cup final featuring Praggnanandhaa and the Badminton World Championships semifinal featuring HS Prannoy, our live coverage extends to all mega sporting events. We extensively cover events like the Olympics, Asian Games, Cricket World Cups, FIFA World Cups, and more. 

The desk is also adept at writing comprehensive match reports and insightful post-match commentary, complemented by stats-based articles that provide an in-depth analysis of player performances and team dynamics. 

We track news wires for key stories, conduct exclusive player interviews in both text and video formats, and file content from print editions and reporters. We keep track of all viral stories, trending topics and produce our own copies on the subjects. 

We deliver accurate, engaging, and up-to-the-minute sports content, round the clock.Read More

