https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/sports/cricket/news/friendship-still-very-strong-sachin-tendulkar-continues-to-support-vinod-kambli/articleshow/123444535.cms

'Friendship still very strong': Tendulkar continues to support Kambli

Sachin Tendulkar's enduring friendship with Vinod Kambli remains strong, as revealed by Kambli's brother, Virendra. Despite Kambli's recent health struggles, including a brain clot, Tendulkar consistently checks in on him and his wife. Virendra fondly remembers their close bond during Ranji Trophy matches.

Sachin Tendulkar's enduring friendship with Vinod Kambli remains strong, as revealed by Kambli's brother, Virendra. Despite Kambli's recent health struggles, including a brain clot, Tendulkar consistently checks in on him and his wife. Virendra fondly remembers their close bond during Ranji Trophy matches. Sachin Tendulkar and Vinod Kambli NEW DELHI: The friendship between Sachin Tendulkar and Vinod Kambli has long been one of cricket’s most talked-about stories. Their childhood bond, highlighted by the iconic 664-run partnership in school cricket, remains part of the game’s folklore. Now, as Kambli battles illness and continues a long road to recovery after years of health struggles, his younger brother Virendra has shed light on the enduring connection between the two former teammates.Go Beyond The Boundary with our YouTube channel. SUBSCRIBE NOW!Sachin Tendulkar Honoured at Lord’sIn an interview with Vickey Lalwani, Virendra revealed how Tendulkar continues to check in regularly on Kambli’s health."Sachin dada has always supported Vinod. Their friendship is still very strong. Sachin calls and checks on him with Andrea [Hewitt, Vinod’s wife]."PollWhat stands out more to you in Sachin and Kambli’s story?Their legendary cricket partnershipTheir enduring friendshipTendulkar, who made his debut for Mumbai a couple of years before Kambli, was considered his closest friend during their rise in domestic cricket. While Tendulkar went on to become one of the greatest players of all time, Kambli’s career never quite reached the same heights. Yet, their bond remained unshaken."He was closest to him. I don’t know about others, but I saw them together when I went to watch Ranji Trophy matches. I would go to the dressing room to eat, and Sachin dada, Vinod, and I would sit together and have fun. We would joke around and have a good time," Virendra recalled.He also shared an update on his brother’s recovery following a brain clot that had required hospitalisation a few months earlier. The news was cautiously positive."He is at home right now. He is getting stable, but his treatment is on. He is having difficulty speaking. It will take him time to recover. But he is a champion, and he will come back," said Virendra. "He will start walking and running, hopefully. I have a lot of faith in him. I hope you can see him back on the ground."Catch Rani Rampal's inspiring story on Game On, Episode 4. Watch Here!About the AuthorTOI Sports DeskThe TOI Sports Desk excels in a myriad of roles that capture the essence of live sporting events and deliver compelling content to readers worldwide. 

From running live blogs for India and non-India cricket matches to global spectacles featuring Indian talents, like the Chess World Cup final featuring Praggnanandhaa and the Badminton World Championships semifinal featuring HS Prannoy, our live coverage extends to all mega sporting events. We extensively cover events like the Olympics, Asian Games, Cricket World Cups, FIFA World Cups, and more. 

The desk is also adept at writing comprehensive match reports and insightful post-match commentary, complemented by stats-based articles that provide an in-depth analysis of player performances and team dynamics. 

We track news wires for key stories, conduct exclusive player interviews in both text and video formats, and file content from print editions and reporters. We keep track of all viral stories, trending topics and produce our own copies on the subjects. 

We deliver accurate, engaging, and up-to-the-minute sports content, round the clock.Read More

