https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/sports/cricket/asia-cup/asia-cup-he-backs-players-he-likes-gautam-gambhir-questioned-over-shreyas-iyer-snub/articleshow/123443602.cms

'He backs players he likes': Gambhir questioned over Shreyas Iyer snub

Sadagoppan Ramesh has ignited controversy by alleging that Gautam Gambhir didn't support Shreyas Iyer's Asia Cup inclusion, despite Iyer's stellar form, including a strong IPL and Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy performance. Ramesh also questioned the praise surrounding India's drawn Test series in England and highlighted Iyer's pivotal role in the Champions Trophy victory, where he was India's top scorer.

Sadagoppan Ramesh has ignited controversy by alleging that Gautam Gambhir didn't support Shreyas Iyer's Asia Cup inclusion, despite Iyer's stellar form, including a strong IPL and Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy performance. Ramesh also questioned the praise surrounding India's drawn Test series in England and highlighted Iyer's pivotal role in the Champions Trophy victory, where he was India's top scorer. Gautam Gambhir (AFP Photo) NEW DELHI: Former India opener Sadagoppan Ramesh has alleged that head coach Gautam Gambhir did not support Shreyas Iyer’s inclusion in the Asia Cup squad, despite the batter’s outstanding form in recent tournaments. His remarks come amid ongoing criticism of BCCI chief selector Ajit Agarkar over Iyer’s omission from the squad for the Asia Cup, scheduled to begin on September 9 in the UAE.Go Beyond The Boundary with our YouTube channel. SUBSCRIBE NOW!Iyer has been in prolific touch this season, amassing 604 runs in the 2025 IPL at a strike rate of 174, along with more than 300 runs in the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy at a strike rate of 188. Yet, he failed to find a place in India’s 15-member Asia Cup squad.Speaking on his YouTube channel, Ramesh also questioned the narrative around India’s recent 2-2 Test series draw in England, led by Shubman Gill in the absence of Virat Kohli and Rohit Sharma.PollShould Shreyas Iyer have been included in the Asia Cup squad?Yes, he deserves a spot.No, there are better options."He backs the players he likes but completely lets go of those he doesn't. Winning consistently abroad had started long back under Kohli and Shastri. But now, just the drawn series in England is being projected as a big achievement in Gambhir's track record," Ramesh said.He pointed out Iyer’s crucial role in India’s Champions Trophy triumph earlier this year, where he was India’s top scorer with 243 runs—second overall behind New Zealand’s Rachin Ravindra (263)."Gambhir's biggest achievement remains the Champions Trophy triumph, and Iyer was the biggest reason for that success. Yet, Gambhir is not backing him. Someone like Jaiswal, who is an X-factor player, must play all formats. Keeping him in standby is a poor move," Ramesh added.The former opener stressed that Iyer’s form and confidence made him indispensable to India’s white-ball setup."Shreyas Iyer produced incredible performances in the same UAE during the Champions Trophy and should be a permanent fixture in India's white-ball teams. Players must be backed when they are high on confidence and in form, not when they fade away. This is the ideal time to reap the rewards of Iyer's sky-high confidence."Catch Rani Rampal's inspiring story on Game On, Episode 4. Watch Here!About the AuthorTOI Sports DeskThe TOI Sports Desk excels in a myriad of roles that capture the essence of live sporting events and deliver compelling content to readers worldwide. 

From running live blogs for India and non-India cricket matches to global spectacles featuring Indian talents, like the Chess World Cup final featuring Praggnanandhaa and the Badminton World Championships semifinal featuring HS Prannoy, our live coverage extends to all mega sporting events. We extensively cover events like the Olympics, Asian Games, Cricket World Cups, FIFA World Cups, and more. 

The desk is also adept at writing comprehensive match reports and insightful post-match commentary, complemented by stats-based articles that provide an in-depth analysis of player performances and team dynamics. 

We track news wires for key stories, conduct exclusive player interviews in both text and video formats, and file content from print editions and reporters. We keep track of all viral stories, trending topics and produce our own copies on the subjects. 

We deliver accurate, engaging, and up-to-the-minute sports content, round the clock.Read More

