https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/sports/cricket/news/pakistans-mohammad-rizwan-trolled-after-comical-dismissal-cricket-chhod-ke-maulana-ban-jaa/articleshow/123449317.cms

'Cricket chhod ke maulana ban jaa': Rizwan trolled after comical dismissal

Mohammad Rizwan's struggles continue as he faces setbacks, including being dropped from the Asia Cup squad and demoted in PCB contracts. His poor form extended to the CPL, where he was dismissed for just 3 runs, leading to social media trolling. Pakistan cricket is facing a decline across formats, marked by inconsistent performances and early exits from major tournaments.

Mohammad Rizwan's struggles continue as he faces setbacks, including being dropped from the Asia Cup squad and demoted in PCB contracts. His poor form extended to the CPL, where he was dismissed for just 3 runs, leading to social media trolling. Pakistan cricket is facing a decline across formats, marked by inconsistent performances and early exits from major tournaments. Mohammad Rizwan (AFP Photo) NEW DELHI: Things are not going Pakistan’s star wicketkeeper-batter Mohammad Rizwan’s way. After being dropped from the Asia Cup squad and demoted in the Pakistan Cricket Board’s (PCB) central contracts, his poor run has now extended to the Caribbean Premier League.Go Beyond The Boundary with our YouTube channel. SUBSCRIBE NOW!Playing for St Kitts and Nevis Patriots, Rizwan managed only 3 runs before being dismissed by spinner Jomel Warrican. Attempting a sweep, he missed the turn completely, lost his balance, fell to the ground, and saw his stumps shattered. The dismissal drew laughter from players on the field and even from the opposition dressing room. He was badly trolled on social media as well. Champions Trophy: 'India put in more effort, were braver than us,' admits Mohammad RizwanA dejected Rizwan shook his head in disappointment as he walked back to the pavilion.Earlier, the PCB had scrapped the top category of its central contracts after a series of poor results, demoting former captains Babar Azam and Rizwan to category B for the first time since the system was introduced 21 years ago.Despite being among Pakistan’s biggest cricketing names, both Azam and Rizwan lost their places in the T20I squads for the upcoming tri-series and Asia Cup following inconsistent performances over the past year.Joining them in category B are T20I captain Salman Agha, Fakhar Zaman, Abrar Ahmed, Haris Rauf, Hasan Ali, Saim Ayub, Shadab Khan, and Shaheen Shah Afridi. Meanwhile, Test skipper Shan Masood was pushed further down, from category B to D.Pakistan’s decline has been stark across formats. They beat England 2-1 in a home Test series last year but subsequently lost 2-0 in South Africa and drew 1-1 at home against a struggling West Indies, finishing last in the World Test Championship.In ODIs, Pakistan registered their first series win in Australia in 22 years and blanked South Africa 3-0, but then suffered a shocking first-round exit from the Champions Trophy, which they co-hosted with Dubai.The downward spiral continued in T20Is as well, with a first-round exit at last year’s T20 World Cup and a 2-1 series defeat in Bangladesh.Pakistan will next feature in a tri-series in Sharjah from August 29, also involving Afghanistan and the United Arab Emirates, followed by the Asia Cup in Dubai.Catch Rani Rampal's inspiring story on Game On, Episode 4. Watch Here!About the AuthorTOI Sports DeskThe TOI Sports Desk excels in a myriad of roles that capture the essence of live sporting events and deliver compelling content to readers worldwide. 

From running live blogs for India and non-India cricket matches to global spectacles featuring Indian talents, like the Chess World Cup final featuring Praggnanandhaa and the Badminton World Championships semifinal featuring HS Prannoy, our live coverage extends to all mega sporting events. We extensively cover events like the Olympics, Asian Games, Cricket World Cups, FIFA World Cups, and more. 

The desk is also adept at writing comprehensive match reports and insightful post-match commentary, complemented by stats-based articles that provide an in-depth analysis of player performances and team dynamics. 

We track news wires for key stories, conduct exclusive player interviews in both text and video formats, and file content from print editions and reporters. We keep track of all viral stories, trending topics and produce our own copies on the subjects. 

We deliver accurate, engaging, and up-to-the-minute sports content, round the clock.Read More

