https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/sports/cricket/asia-cup/asia-cup-2025-sanju-samson-drops-major-hint-on-where-he-will-bat-for-india/articleshow/123444322.cms

Asia Cup: Sanju Samson drops major hint on where he will bat for India

Sanju Samson is set to embrace a new role in the Asia Cup 2025, with Shubman Gill's return potentially shifting Samson down the batting order. Likely to bat at number five or six, Samson demonstrated his adaptability by moving down the order in a recent Kerala Cricket League match.

Sanju Samson is set to embrace a new role in the Asia Cup 2025, with Shubman Gill's return potentially shifting Samson down the batting order. Likely to bat at number five or six, Samson demonstrated his adaptability by moving down the order in a recent Kerala Cricket League match. Sanju Samson (Agency Image) India’s wicketkeeper-batter Sanju Samson is preparing to embrace a new role ahead of the Asia Cup 2025. With Shubman Gill returning to the T20I squad for the first time since July 2024, Samson is unlikely to open the innings as he has in the past. While he remains a vital part of India’s playing XI in Dubai and Abu Dhabi, his batting position could change, giving fans a glimpse of a different side to his game. Samson has already signalled his readiness to adapt. In the Kerala Cricket League on Thursday, he was expected to open for Kochi Blue Tigers but chose to move down the order, slotting in at number five. Although he did not get a chance to bat against Adani Trivandrum Royals but his decision highlighted his team-first approach and willingness to adjust to new roles.India Asia Cup squad press conference: What Ajit Agarkar, Surya said on shocking callsGo Beyond The Boundary with our YouTube channel. SUBSCRIBE NOW! The Asia Cup setup means Shubman Gill and Abhishek Sharma are likely to form India’s opening pair, leaving Samson to find a new position in the middle order. Number three, where Samson has enjoyed considerable success in T20s, is expected to be occupied by Tilak Varma, making number five or six his probable spot in the batting line-up.PollWho do you believe should be India's first choice wicketkeeper in the Asia Cup?Sanju SamsonJitesh SharmaIndia's squad for the Asia Cup 2025: Surya Kumar Yadav (C), Shubman Gill (VC), Abhishek Sharma, Tilak Varma, Hardik Pandya, Shivam Dube, Axar Patel, Jitesh Sharma (WK), Jasprit Bumrah, Arshdeep Singh, Varun Chakaravarthy, Kuldeep Yadav, Sanju Samson (WK), Harshit Rana, Rinku SinghAlso Read: Asia Cup 2025 | Curious case of Sanju Samson: The unsettled star of Indian cricketFormer India captain Ajinkya Rahane has also weighed in on the team’s combination, acknowledging that while Samson is a confident and dependable player, team balance may require others to open. Rahane indicated that Shubman Gill and Abhishek Sharma are the likely opening pair, but stressed that Samson’s value to the team goes beyond any single batting position.Catch Rani Rampal's inspiring story on Game On, Episode 4. Watch Here!About the AuthorTOI Sports DeskThe TOI Sports Desk excels in a myriad of roles that capture the essence of live sporting events and deliver compelling content to readers worldwide. 

From running live blogs for India and non-India cricket matches to global spectacles featuring Indian talents, like the Chess World Cup final featuring Praggnanandhaa and the Badminton World Championships semifinal featuring HS Prannoy, our live coverage extends to all mega sporting events. We extensively cover events like the Olympics, Asian Games, Cricket World Cups, FIFA World Cups, and more. 

The desk is also adept at writing comprehensive match reports and insightful post-match commentary, complemented by stats-based articles that provide an in-depth analysis of player performances and team dynamics. 

We track news wires for key stories, conduct exclusive player interviews in both text and video formats, and file content from print editions and reporters. We keep track of all viral stories, trending topics and produce our own copies on the subjects. 

We deliver accurate, engaging, and up-to-the-minute sports content, round the clock.Read More

