https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/sports/cricket/news/you-never-know-aussie-all-rounder-comeback-could-reshape-australias-ashes-plans/articleshow/123443884.cms

'You never know': Aussie all-rounder comeback could reshape Australia’s Ashes plans

Cameron Green aims to bowl again before the Ashes, potentially returning in the Sheffield Shield after back surgery sidelined him last year. While he's contributed with the bat, Green believes his bowling will significantly boost Australia against England.

Cameron Green aims to bowl again before the Ashes, potentially returning in the Sheffield Shield after back surgery sidelined him last year. While he's contributed with the bat, Green believes his bowling will significantly boost Australia against England. Cameron Green of Australia (Photo by Paul Harding/Gallo Images/Getty Images) Cameron Green has set his sights on returning to bowling before the Ashes later this year, with a potential comeback in the Sheffield Shield. The Australian all-rounder has not bowled in a competitive match since undergoing back surgery last year, which forced him to miss the entire Test summer. The 26-year-old has made a strong return with the bat, featuring in four Tests since the World Test Championship final and the Caribbean tour. He has also become an important part of Australia’s white-ball setup. However, Green believes his ability to bowl could significantly strengthen Australia against England. “I’m not quite certain which match I’ll bowl in, but I’m feeling really good, in a good spot,” he told Fox Sports. “It’s exciting being back bowling at a reasonable intensity.”Pat Cummins on WTC Final: 'Cameron Green deserves a spot in the lineup'Go Beyond The Boundary with our YouTube channel. SUBSCRIBE NOW! Green has been occupying the No.3 position with mixed returns. He scored a half-century and two knocks in the 40s but also registered two single-digit scores against South Africa at Lord’s. With Australia still unsettled at the top of the order for the Ashes opener in Perth this November, his batting position remains uncertain. “You never know,” Green said. “There are a lot of guys who can fill that role. I’m proud I was able to step up there, but wait and see.”PollDo you think Cameron Green will successfully return to bowling before the Ashes?Yes, definitelyNo, he will need more timeSteve Smith is expected to bat at No.4, with Travis Head at five. All-rounder Beau Webster has slotted in at No.6 but could make way if Green resumes bowling duties. Green has marked the Sheffield Shield as crucial preparation, planning to get valuable overs under his belt for Western Australia. “In the past, it’s worked really well when I focused on Shield cricket,” he explained. “That might be the best way to return to bowling, getting a few overs across a few days. It’s been a long road back.”Catch Rani Rampal's inspiring story on Game On, Episode 4. Watch Here!About the AuthorTOI Sports DeskThe TOI Sports Desk excels in a myriad of roles that capture the essence of live sporting events and deliver compelling content to readers worldwide. 

From running live blogs for India and non-India cricket matches to global spectacles featuring Indian talents, like the Chess World Cup final featuring Praggnanandhaa and the Badminton World Championships semifinal featuring HS Prannoy, our live coverage extends to all mega sporting events. We extensively cover events like the Olympics, Asian Games, Cricket World Cups, FIFA World Cups, and more. 

The desk is also adept at writing comprehensive match reports and insightful post-match commentary, complemented by stats-based articles that provide an in-depth analysis of player performances and team dynamics. 

We track news wires for key stories, conduct exclusive player interviews in both text and video formats, and file content from print editions and reporters. We keep track of all viral stories, trending topics and produce our own copies on the subjects. 

We deliver accurate, engaging, and up-to-the-minute sports content, round the clock.Read More

