https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/sports/cricket/news/india-womens-left-arm-spinner-gouher-sultana-retires-from-all-forms-of-cricket/articleshow/123446491.cms

Gouher Sultana retires from all forms of cricket

Gouher Sultana, the Indian women's left-arm spinner, has declared her retirement from all forms of cricket. Representing India was the greatest honour for her, having played 50 ODIs and 37 T20Is, including appearances in two ODI World Cups and three T20 World Cups.

Gouher Sultana, the Indian women's left-arm spinner, has declared her retirement from all forms of cricket. Representing India was the greatest honour for her, having played 50 ODIs and 37 T20Is, including appearances in two ODI World Cups and three T20 World Cups. Gouher Sultana (Getty Images) NEW DELHI: India women’s left-arm spinner Gouher Sultana has announced her retirement from all forms of cricket, describing it as the "greatest honour" to have represented the country at the highest level.The 37-year-old made her India debut in 2008 and went on to play 50 ODIs and 37 T20Is before her last international appearance in April 2014.Go Beyond The Boundary with our YouTube channel. SUBSCRIBE NOW!Sultana revived her career in domestic leagues, making a strong comeback during the 2024 and 2025 Women’s Premier League seasons with UP Warriorz."To have represented India at the highest level – in World Cups, tours and battles that tested both skill and spirit – has been the greatest honour of my life," Sultana wrote in an Instagram post announcing her retirement on Thursday."Every wicket taken, every dive in the field, every huddle with my teammates has shaped the cricketer and the person I am today," she added.Over her international career, Sultana claimed 66 wickets in ODIs at an average of 19.39 and 29 wickets in T20Is at 26.27. She featured in two ODI World Cups (2009 and 2013), where she picked up 12 wickets in 11 matches, and played in three T20 World Cups between 2009 and 2014, finishing with seven wickets.Post-retirement, Sultana continues to contribute to the game as a BCCI Level 2 coach.Catch Rani Rampal's inspiring story on Game On, Episode 4. Watch Here!About the AuthorTOI Sports DeskThe TOI Sports Desk excels in a myriad of roles that capture the essence of live sporting events and deliver compelling content to readers worldwide. 

From running live blogs for India and non-India cricket matches to global spectacles featuring Indian talents, like the Chess World Cup final featuring Praggnanandhaa and the Badminton World Championships semifinal featuring HS Prannoy, our live coverage extends to all mega sporting events. We extensively cover events like the Olympics, Asian Games, Cricket World Cups, FIFA World Cups, and more. 

The desk is also adept at writing comprehensive match reports and insightful post-match commentary, complemented by stats-based articles that provide an in-depth analysis of player performances and team dynamics. 

We track news wires for key stories, conduct exclusive player interviews in both text and video formats, and file content from print editions and reporters. We keep track of all viral stories, trending topics and produce our own copies on the subjects. 

We deliver accurate, engaging, and up-to-the-minute sports content, round the clock.Read More

