https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/punjabi/movies/news/punjab-cm-bhagwant-mann-pays-tribute-to-punjabi-actor-jaswinder-bhalla-chacha-chatra-will-always-reside-in-our-hearts/articleshow/123446616.cms

Bhagwant Mann pays tribute to Jaswinder Bhalla

The Punjabi film industry has lost one of its most beloved comedians and actors, Jaswinder Bhalla, who passed away in Mohali on Friday morning at the age of 65.

The Punjabi film industry has lost one of its most beloved comedians and actors, Jaswinder Bhalla, who passed away in Mohali on Friday morning at the age of 65.  One of the Punjabi industry's most legendary comedian-actors, Jaswinder Bhalla, has passed away. The iconic artist, known for his versatility and unmatched comic timing, breathed his last on Friday morning at the age of 65 in Mohali. The news of his demise left everyone heartbroken, and tributes started pouring in. Several political leaders and public figures also expressed their grief over his death.Punjab Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann pays a tribute to late Jaswinder BhallaWith profound grief, Bhagwant Mann shared a post on X, paying his respects to Jaswinder Bhalla. He wrote, "The sudden departure of Jaswinder Bhalla Ji from this world is extremely sorrowful. The heart is saddened by the silence of the jingle of Chhankatian." Jaswinder Bhalla's reaction on being compared to Dharmendra"May Waheguru grant him a place at His feet. Chacha Chatra will always reside in our hearts," concluded the post.ShiromAkali Dal (SAD) President Sukhbir Singh Badal recalls the late artist"Hearing the news of the passing of Punjab's famous comedian and wonderful human being, Jaswinder Bhalla Ji, has caused great sorrow. With his exceptional artistry, he ruled the hearts of Punjabis. In this fast-paced life, Punjabis will always remember Bhalla Ji, who brought smiles to people's faces. May Guru Sahib grant the departed soul a place at His divine feet and give strength to the family and his millions of fans to accept this divine will," ShiromAkali Dal (SAD) President Sukhbir Singh Badal mentioned on his X.Jaswinder Bhalla's cause of deathAccording to a BBC Punjabi report, Jaswinder Bhalla suffered a brain stroke on Wednesday evening, after which he was admitted to Fortis Hospital, Mohali. This news was confirmed by his close friend and fellow performer from ‘Chhankata,’ Balmukund Sharma. Reportedly, though the actor was given immediate medical attention, he lost a lot of blood, said the doctors. Jaswinder Bhalla’s last ritesJaswinder Bhalla's last rites will reportedly be held on August 23, Saturday, at noon at the Balongi cremation ground, Mohali, in the presence of his family, friends, and all near and dears ones"Get the latest updates on Times of India, including reviews of the movie Coolie  and War 2."About the AuthorTOI Entertainment DeskThe TOI Entertainment Desk is a dynamic and dedicated team of journalists, working tirelessly to bring the pulse of the entertainment world straight to the readers of The Times of India. No red carpet goes unrolled, no stage goes dark - our team spans the globe, bringing you the latest scoops and insider insights from Bollywood to Hollywood, and every entertainment hotspot in between. We don't just report; we tell tales of stardom and stories untold. Whether it's the rise of a new sensation or the seasoned journey of an industry veteran, the TOI Entertainment Desk is your front-row seat to the fascinating narratives that shape the entertainment landscape. Beyond the breaking news, we present a celebration of culture. We explore the intersections of entertainment with society, politics, and everyday life.Read More

