https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/r-madhavan-and-wife-sarita-birje-celebrate-son-vedaants-20th-birthday-with-adorable-family-pics-so-proud-of-the-person-youve-grown-into/articleshow/123447175.cms

R Madhavan celebrates son Vedaant’s 20th birthday

R Madhavan's son, Vedaant Madhavan, celebrated his 20th birthday on August 21st, with his mother, Sarita Birje, sharing unseen family pictures on Instagram. The images capture candid moments between Vedaant, his parents, and their pet dog. Vedaant, known for his swimming achievements, has consistently received support from his parents, even when they are physically apart.

R Madhavan's son, Vedaant Madhavan, celebrated his 20th birthday on August 21st, with his mother, Sarita Birje, sharing unseen family pictures on Instagram. The images capture candid moments between Vedaant, his parents, and their pet dog. Vedaant, known for his swimming achievements, has consistently received support from his parents, even when they are physically apart.  R Madhavan’s son, Vedaant Madhavan, has officially stepped into his twenties, and the celebrations are full of love. Known for his impressive achievements in swimming, Vedaant turned 20 on August 21, a milestone his mother, Sarita Birje, marked with a heartfelt Instagram post featuring rare candid family pictures. Let's take a closer look at these candid family moments shared by R Madhavan's wife Sarita Birje.Sarita Birje shares unseen family pictures with VedaantOn Thursday, Sarita Birje took to Instagram to share several unseen family pictures. In the images, Madhavan and Sarita are seen sharing candid moments with Vedaant. In one of the pictures, Vedaant can be seen sharing a playful time with their pet dog, adding a fun and personal touch to the birthday celebrations.‘COME ON!’ R Madhavan’s son Vedaant Madhavan learns driving in Porsche; netizen says 'Am I the only one who learned in a maruti or alto?’Birje wrote alongside the pictures, “Happy 20th Birthday, my dear son! Today marks the beginning of a whole new chapter in your life — stepping into your twenties, filled with dreams, challenges, and endless opportunities. I’m so proud of the person you’ve grown into, and I can’t wait to see all the amazing things you’ll achieve. Love you loads @vedaantmadhavan.”Ronit Roy, Dia Mirza and others wish VedaantMadhavan also shared the post on his Instagram Stories, and friends and well-wishers flooded the comments with birthday wishes. Actor Rohit Roy wrote, “Can’t believes he’s 20!!!!! Happy birthday kiddo coz to me, you’ll always be that… keep shining brighter each day every day. @vedaantmadhavan.”Raj Kundra commented, “Happy happy birthday to the parents also and @vedaantmadhavan so so proud of you. May all your dreams and wishes come true.”Dia Mirza wrote, “Happy 20th Birthday Vedant’Vedaant’s on R Madhavan’s supportVedaant has been in the news for his remarkable swimming achievements. In an interview with DD India back in 2022, Vedaant said, "He (R Madhavan) is in a different country but he is staying up late to watch my every race. It’s amazing how even though they are not here physically, they’re always looking after me. Both my mom and dad put so much effort to see me swim.”R Madhavan on the work frontR Madhavan was last seen in Netflix's 'Aap Jaisa Koi,' sharing screen space with Fatima Sana Shaikh. He will be seen in Luv Ranjan's 'De De Pyaar De 2,' with Ajay Devgn, Rakul Preet Singh and Tabu. He will also be seen in 'Dhurandhar' with Ranveer Singh. "Get the latest updates on Times of India, including reviews of the movie Coolie  and War 2."About the AuthorTOI Entertainment DeskThe TOI Entertainment Desk is a dynamic and dedicated team of journalists, working tirelessly to bring the pulse of the entertainment world straight to the readers of The Times of India. No red carpet goes unrolled, no stage goes dark - our team spans the globe, bringing you the latest scoops and insider insights from Bollywood to Hollywood, and every entertainment hotspot in between. We don't just report; we tell tales of stardom and stories untold. Whether it's the rise of a new sensation or the seasoned journey of an industry veteran, the TOI Entertainment Desk is your front-row seat to the fascinating narratives that shape the entertainment landscape. Beyond the breaking news, we present a celebration of culture. We explore the intersections of entertainment with society, politics, and everyday life.Read More

