https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/punjabi/movies/news/punjabi-actor-comedian-jaswinder-bhalla-passes-away-cause-of-death-reported-as-brain-stroke/articleshow/123446435.cms

Brain stroke reported as Jaswinder Bhalla's cause of death

The Punjabi entertainment industry mourns the loss of Jaswinder Bhalla, the beloved actor-comedian known for his iconic role as Advocate Dhillon in the 'Carry On Jatta' franchise. He passed away at the age of 65 in Mohali's Fortis Hospital due to complications from a brain stroke.

The Punjabi entertainment industry mourns the loss of Jaswinder Bhalla, the beloved actor-comedian known for his iconic role as Advocate Dhillon in the 'Carry On Jatta' franchise. He passed away at the age of 65 in Mohali's Fortis Hospital due to complications from a brain stroke.  Clouds of grief and sorrow loom over the Punjabi entertainment industry, as it lost one of its most talented gems - Jaswinder Bhalla.The popular Punjabi actor-comedian, Jaswinder Bhalla, who was famous for his character Advocate Dhillon from the ‘Carry On Jatta’ franchise, breathed his last at the age of 65. He passed away in the early hours of Friday, August 22, at Fortis Hospital, Mohali. Jaswinder Bhalla’s cause of deathAccording to a BBC Punjabi report, Jaswinder Bhalla’s close friend and fellow performer from ‘Chhankata,’ Balmukund Sharma, confirmed the news of the actor’s demise. He said Jaswinder Bhalla suffered a brain stroke on Wednesday evening, after which he was admitted to Fortis Hospital, Mohali.He was given immediate medical attention, but according to the doctors, the actor had lost a lot of blood. PollWhich aspect of Jaswinder Bhalla’s career do you remember most?Iconic comic timingMemorable movie charactersJaswinder Bhalla’s last ritesReportedly, the last rites of the celebrated actor Jaswinder Bhalla will be held on August 23 at noon at the Balongi cremation ground, Mohali. Family, friends, and all near and dears ones are expected to mark their presence and pay their respects to the late artist.Actor Jaswinder Bhalla spreads 'stay home, stay safe' messageJaswinder Bhalla - The artist who is gone but not forgottenKnown for his unmatched and unbeatable comic timing, Jaswinder Bhalla made a place in the hearts of millions. Though he was a Punjabi artist, his fame wasn’t limited to regional boundaries. He is also remembered for his memorable collaborations with Jaspal Bhatti in the Hindi comedy 'Mahaul Theek Hai' (1999).He built an empire with persistence and pure dedication. He began his journey with ‘Dulha Batti,’ and since then, never looked back. Imagining franchises like 'Jatt and Juliet' and 'Carry On Jatta' is almost impossible without his iconic character. His dialogue, “Advocate Dhillon ne kala coat aiwi ni paya,” to date, tickles the audience. A couple of his last movies - ‘Shinda Shinda No Papa’ with Gippy Grewal and Hina Khan, ‘Carry On Jatta 3,’ again with Gippy and other talented stars, showcased his sheer talent and love for the craft.See More:Jaswinder Bhalla passes away: Gippy Grewal, Neeru Bajwa, and other Punjabi stars pen heartwarming tributes to express their grief"Get the latest updates on Times of India, including reviews of the movie Coolie  and War 2."About the AuthorTOI Entertainment DeskThe TOI Entertainment Desk is a dynamic and dedicated team of journalists, working tirelessly to bring the pulse of the entertainment world straight to the readers of The Times of India. No red carpet goes unrolled, no stage goes dark - our team spans the globe, bringing you the latest scoops and insider insights from Bollywood to Hollywood, and every entertainment hotspot in between. We don't just report; we tell tales of stardom and stories untold. Whether it's the rise of a new sensation or the seasoned journey of an industry veteran, the TOI Entertainment Desk is your front-row seat to the fascinating narratives that shape the entertainment landscape. Beyond the breaking news, we present a celebration of culture. We explore the intersections of entertainment with society, politics, and everyday life.Read More

