https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/shah-rukh-khan-is-very-boring-about-his-food-his-suite-door-is-always-open-says-boman-irani-about-his-co-star-he-never-allows-his-stardom-/articleshow/123452754.cms

Shah Rukh is boring, says Boman: 'He only eats...'

Boman Irani fondly recalls his experiences with Shah Rukh Khan, emphasising his generosity and the joyful atmosphere he creates on set. Irani highlights Khan's inclusive nature, ensuring co-stars feel comfortable and valued. Despite a recent injury and recovery period, Shah Rukh Khan was recently honored with the National Award for Best Actor for 'Jawan'.

Boman Irani fondly recalls his experiences with Shah Rukh Khan, emphasising his generosity and the joyful atmosphere he creates on set. Irani highlights Khan's inclusive nature, ensuring co-stars feel comfortable and valued. Despite a recent injury and recovery period, Shah Rukh Khan was recently honored with the National Award for Best Actor for 'Jawan'.  Shah Rukh Khan is not only adored by millions of fans but also deeply admired by his co-stars. Almost everyone who has shared screen space with him in his three-decade-long career has spoken warmly about the superstar. Among them is 'Happy New Year' co-star Boman Irani, who recently reflected on his bond with Shah Rukh. Though he jokingly described him as “extremely boring,” the rest of his memories of working with him were filled with affection and admiration.In a conversation with Humans of Bombay, Boman said, “Shah Rukh (Khan) enjoys being on a set. He enjoys being with people. He enjoys the collective nature of creating a movie. For me, there is really a naughty side to him. He is very giving. He is very big hearted.”Shah Rukh Khan Jokes About Injury: 'One Hand Enough For National Award'Boman went on to describe Shah Rukh’s famously warm hospitality on set. “His suite door will always be open. There will be all the snacks on one side. People walk in and walk out, pick up snacks. He plays games with them when he has the time. The set is always fun,” he revealed.Sharing why Shah Rukh is among his favourite people to work with, Boman added, “Sometimes, when we are performing… and things go wrong, we find it funny. Rather than be desperate. That’s a great talent to have. We know we will get there. He knows he will.”He also pointed out how SRK never makes his co-stars feel overshadowed by his stardom. “Shah Rukh doesn’t allow you to think like that with him. He doesn’t allow you to get there,” Boman said, highlighting the humility that makes the superstar so beloved on and off screen.However, Boman has only one problem with SRK, that he's very boring with his food. He added, "He is extremely boring. He only eats tandoor chicken and nothing else. He is not a restaurant kinda guy. He will come with us, but he won’t eat. The food is lying over there, he is talking and it is getting cold and everybody is enjoying a lovely meal par Shah Rukh ko koi farq nahi padta ( but none of this affects SRK). So I do have a problem there. He doesn’t give me a company when it comes to food.”On work front, Shah Rukh is currently working on 'King', but the actor suffered and injury and is currently recuperating. He recently said at the event to launch son Aryan Khan's show 'B***ds of Bollywood' that it will take him 1-2 months to recover. Meanwhile, the actor recently was announced as the recipient of the National Award for Best Actor for 'Jawan'."Get the latest updates on Times of India, including reviews of the movie Coolie  and War 2."About the AuthorTOI Entertainment DeskThe TOI Entertainment Desk is a dynamic and dedicated team of journalists, working tirelessly to bring the pulse of the entertainment world straight to the readers of The Times of India. No red carpet goes unrolled, no stage goes dark - our team spans the globe, bringing you the latest scoops and insider insights from Bollywood to Hollywood, and every entertainment hotspot in between. We don't just report; we tell tales of stardom and stories untold. Whether it's the rise of a new sensation or the seasoned journey of an industry veteran, the TOI Entertainment Desk is your front-row seat to the fascinating narratives that shape the entertainment landscape. Beyond the breaking news, we present a celebration of culture. We explore the intersections of entertainment with society, politics, and everyday life.Read More

