https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/anurag-kashyap-reveals-he-quit-alcohol-after-leaving-mumbai-says-he-stopped-watching-hindi-movies-to-cure-depression-i-dont-have-to-deal-/articleshow/123451763.cms

Anurag quit alcohol after leaving Mumbai

Anurag Kashyap left Mumbai, feeling drained by the Hindi film industry. He felt depressed by Bollywood's focus on box office numbers and declining film quality. Kashyap moved to the South, quit drinking, and started exercising. He found creative inspiration and began writing more. He felt avoided by Hindi filmmakers and questioned his time in Mumbai.

Anurag Kashyap left Mumbai, feeling drained by the Hindi film industry. He felt depressed by Bollywood's focus on box office numbers and declining film quality. Kashyap moved to the South, quit drinking, and started exercising. He found creative inspiration and began writing more. He felt avoided by Hindi filmmakers and questioned his time in Mumbai.  Anurag Kashyap has candidly spoken about why he chose to step away from Mumbai, revealing that the atmosphere of the Hindi film industry had left him drained, depressed, and disillusioned. The filmmaker said he grew weary of Bollywood’s obsession with box office numbers and what he sees as a decline in the quality of films being made. After shifting base to the South, Kashyap shared that he quit drinking, began exercising, and has found himself writing more than ever.In a conversation on Sudhir Srinivasan’s YouTube channel, Anurag admitted that he couldn’t cope with the negativity surrounding him in Mumbai. He recalled how people around him began positioning themselves as ‘saviours’ for his career, and how industry peers distanced themselves, believing he was on a downward spiral. “I went into a depression. I’ve come out of it. I’m enjoying myself now. One thing I did was, I stopped watching Hindi films. I started watching a lot of films from first-time filmmakers, I started watching a lot of Malayalam films,” he said, adding that working on Rifle Club played a key role in reigniting his creative spark.Anurag Kashyap Exposes T-Series For Underpaying Iconic Film MusicAccording to him, Bollywood colleagues had started to avoid him altogether. “Hindi filmmakers have been avoiding me, because they think I’m bad new, because they think I have no filter and I talk. They think that if they get associated with me, they might not get (to work with) some studio or somebody else will get upset. And I’ve come to a place that I’m inspired by, and people have so much love for me,” he explained. The warmth he felt in the South, he added, made him question his years in Mumbai. “Why am I in a place where I’m being told that people are talking about your alcoholism, people are talking about your depression, people are saying you’re losing your way. They’re trying to be my saviour and telling me what I must do to save me from myself,” he said.On giving up alcohol, Anurag revealed it wasn’t a forced decision. “I don’t have to deal with people. Automatically, I started exercising. Automatically, I started writing,” he shared.Kashyap has previously criticized the Hindi film industry for being overly money-driven, and even said that actors he once collaborated with now ghost him. He also spoke about how his mental health suffered after Netflix shelved his dream project Maximum City, with several other completed films of his stuck in limbo. Now, though, some of those projects are finally finding their way out: Nishaanchi is set for release on September 19, while Bandar and Kennedy await their turn."Get the latest updates on Times of India, including reviews of the movie Coolie  and War 2."About the AuthorTOI Entertainment DeskThe TOI Entertainment Desk is a dynamic and dedicated team of journalists, working tirelessly to bring the pulse of the entertainment world straight to the readers of The Times of India. No red carpet goes unrolled, no stage goes dark - our team spans the globe, bringing you the latest scoops and insider insights from Bollywood to Hollywood, and every entertainment hotspot in between. We don't just report; we tell tales of stardom and stories untold. Whether it's the rise of a new sensation or the seasoned journey of an industry veteran, the TOI Entertainment Desk is your front-row seat to the fascinating narratives that shape the entertainment landscape. Beyond the breaking news, we present a celebration of culture. We explore the intersections of entertainment with society, politics, and everyday life.Read More

