https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/box-office/coolie-beats-robot-as-rajinikanths-2nd-biggest-hindi-hit/articleshow/123447448.cms

Coolie beats Robot as Rajinikanth’s 2nd biggest Hindi hit

Rajinikanth's Coolie is a hit. The film earned Rs 229.73 crore domestically. Its Hindi version surpassed Robot's collection. Coolie's Hindi version earned Rs 26.02 crore in eight days. The film opened well and maintained momentum. Despite competition from War 2, Coolie performed strongly. Experts predict further growth in collections. Coolie is Rajinikanth's third biggest hit.

Rajinikanth's Coolie is a hit. The film earned Rs 229.73 crore domestically. Its Hindi version surpassed Robot's collection. Coolie's Hindi version earned Rs 26.02 crore in eight days. The film opened well and maintained momentum. Despite competition from War 2, Coolie performed strongly. Experts predict further growth in collections. Coolie is Rajinikanth's third biggest hit. Rajinikanth’s latest outing Coolie is proving to be a true pan-India phenomenon. While the film has already stormed the South Indian markets and taken its overall domestic tally to a staggering Rs 229.73 crore, its Hindi version too has achieved a significant milestone. In just eight days, Coolie’s Hindi version has collected Rs 26.02 crore nett , making it Rajinikanth’s second biggest hit in Hindi by surpassing Shankar’s Robot (2010), which had earned Rs 23.84 crore from its Hindi release.The numbers highlight how Rajinikanth’s reach in the Hindi belt has grown stronger over the years. Coolie opened decently in Hindi withRs 4.5 crore on Day 1, and gained momentum over the weekend, mintingRs 6.25 crore on Day 2 and a solid Rs 4.25 crore on Day 3 and Rs 4.75 on day 4 . By its extended weekend the film had already clocked more than Rs 19 crore in Hindi. The weekdays saw a steady trend with collections of Rs 1.85 crore on Day 5,Rs 2 crore on Day 6 ,Rs 1.3 crore on Day 6, Rs 1.3 crore on Day 7 and Rs 1.12 on Day 8 as per early estimates by Sacnilk.‘Coolie’ release sparks madness: Rajinikanth fans dance and flood theatres in Tamil NaduFor context, Rajinikanth’s biggest-ever hit in Hindi remains 2.0 (2018), which collected over Rs 189 crore in its dubbed version thanks to its spectacular VFX and Akshay Kumar’s presence in a villainous role. While Coolie is still far behind that benchmark, crossing Robot’s lifetime Hindi total in just eight days is a clear indication of its strong reception.What adds weight to Coolie’s success is the competition it has faced. The film released alongside Hrithik Roshan, Jr NTR and Kiara Advani’s War 2, yet managed to hold its ground firmly in the North. While War 2 had an edge in terms of screen count in the Hindi-speaking markets, Coolie managed to carve out a solid audience for itself, especially in single screens and tier-2 cities.WithRs 229.73 crore overall, Coolie has already become Rajinikanth’s third biggest hit of all time, standing only behind 2.0 and Jailer. Industry experts predict that the film has enough momentum to continue adding to its tally in the next week as well and could possibly hit the Rs 275 crore mark.For Rajinikanth, Coolie marks yet another affirmation of his enduring superstardom. Even at this stage of his career, the Thalaivar continues to break records, cross industries, and prove why his appeal remains unmatched."Get the latest updates on Times of India, including reviews of the movie Coolie  and War 2."About the AuthorTOI Entertainment DeskThe TOI Entertainment Desk is a dynamic and dedicated team of journalists, working tirelessly to bring the pulse of the entertainment world straight to the readers of The Times of India. No red carpet goes unrolled, no stage goes dark - our team spans the globe, bringing you the latest scoops and insider insights from Bollywood to Hollywood, and every entertainment hotspot in between. We don't just report; we tell tales of stardom and stories untold. Whether it's the rise of a new sensation or the seasoned journey of an industry veteran, the TOI Entertainment Desk is your front-row seat to the fascinating narratives that shape the entertainment landscape. Beyond the breaking news, we present a celebration of culture. We explore the intersections of entertainment with society, politics, and everyday life.Read More

