https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/english/hollywood/news/did-tyla-collapse-at-brazil-party-video-of-bodyguard-carrying-water-singer-to-car-sparks-concern/articleshow/123443750.cms

Did Tyla COLLAPSE at Brazil party? - WATCH

Tyla, the South African pop star, raised concerns among fans after a video surfaced showing her being carried to a car by her bodyguard at a party in São Paulo, Brazil. The viral clip sparked speculation about her well-being, with some fans questioning if she had a health scare or simply overexerted herself.

Tyla, the South African pop star, raised concerns among fans after a video surfaced showing her being carried to a car by her bodyguard at a party in São Paulo, Brazil. The viral clip sparked speculation about her well-being, with some fans questioning if she had a health scare or simply overexerted herself.  South African pop star Tyla sparked concern among her fans after a video showing her being carried away to a car by her bodyguard went viral online. Tyla's viral videoThe incident, which reportedly took place in the early hours of August 20, at a party the singer was attending in São Paulo, Brazil. The viral clip, first shared on Twitter by @YSLONIKA, saw the singer in a lime green dress, being carried over the shoulder of a security guard. The man was then seen placing her in the arms of another man seated in her car. Although Tyla's face could not be seen and verified, news reports stated that the woman was her after another video from the party saw her chatting with another woman and making a video reel together. The clip showed her seemingly fine and cheerful as she danced energetically at the party, leaving many wondering what lead her to pass out at the bash.Inside video from the partyThe video immediately sparked concern online with fans of the Grammy-winner expressing outrage over the men in the video handling her. Some fans questioned whether the Grammy-winning singer had experienced a health scare, while others suggested she may have simply overexerted herself at the event.The clip surfaced online at the same time that another video of singer Lil Nas X walking around the streets of LA went viral. The rapper was taken to the hospital for a suspected overdose and on his discharge, was booked and jailed on allegations of assaulting a police officer. Hours after the arrest, TMZ published photos that appeared to show the singer walking down the 1100 block of Ventura Boulevard, around 4 am, wearing only underwear and boots."Get the latest updates on Times of India, including reviews of the movie Coolie  and War 2."About the AuthorTOI Entertainment DeskThe TOI Entertainment Desk is a dynamic and dedicated team of journalists, working tirelessly to bring the pulse of the entertainment world straight to the readers of The Times of India. No red carpet goes unrolled, no stage goes dark - our team spans the globe, bringing you the latest scoops and insider insights from Bollywood to Hollywood, and every entertainment hotspot in between. We don't just report; we tell tales of stardom and stories untold. Whether it's the rise of a new sensation or the seasoned journey of an industry veteran, the TOI Entertainment Desk is your front-row seat to the fascinating narratives that shape the entertainment landscape. Beyond the breaking news, we present a celebration of culture. We explore the intersections of entertainment with society, politics, and everyday life.Read More

