https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/web-series/news/f1-the-movie-stream-brad-pitts-racing-drama-online-heres-where-and-when-you-can-watch-it/articleshow/123450175.cms

'F1: The Movie' OTT release: Where and when to watch

Brad Pitt's racing drama 'F1: The Movie,' a summer box office hit with $590.5 million globally, makes its digital debut today. Directed by Joseph Kosinski, the film is available for rent on Prime Video, with an expected arrival on Apple TV+ between late September and early October.

Brad Pitt's racing drama 'F1: The Movie,' a summer box office hit with $590.5 million globally, makes its digital debut today. Directed by Joseph Kosinski, the film is available for rent on Prime Video, with an expected arrival on Apple TV+ between late September and early October.  Those who missed a chance to catch Brad Pitt's racing drama 'F1: The Movie' on the big screen, will now get the chance to watch it online as the film is making it OTT debut today. F1: The Movie OTT releaseThe film ignited the summer box office, amassing a global box office haul, estimated at $590.5 million since its theatrical release on June 27. According to a report in The Economic Times, the Joseph Kosinski directorial will now be making its digital streaming debut on Friday, August 22. Where to watch the movieHowever, the film will only be available for rent on Prime Video. It will still take a few weeks before it arrives for streaming on Apple TV+ between late September and early October, nearly three months after its cinema release. However, the platform has yet to confirm the official streaming date.Brad Pitt Throws SHADE At Tom Cruise At 'F1' Premiere: 'He's Off His Meds'Movie plotDirected by the filmmaker best known for his work on 'Top Gun: Maverick', and produced by Hollywood heavyweight Jerry Bruckheimer, the film follows Sonny Hayes (Brad Pitt), a former Formula 1 driver from the 1990s whose career was derailed by a fatal accident. Decades later, he is given a second shot at glory when his ex-teammate Ruben Cervantes (Javier Bardem), now owner of a struggling F1 team, invites him back to the track. He teams up with rookie Joshua Pearce (Damson Idris), to face off against fierce rivalries and put their teamwork to the test on the international circuit.Box office collectionsThe film has already become a global phenomenon. The film that earned an estimated $182.8 million in North America, and scored an international collection of $407.7 million, has recorded a total box office haul slightly shy of the $600 million mark. The movie became the No.1 film of 2025 in South Korea, outpacing all local titles. It is also said to be actor Brad Pitt’s biggest-ever release at the box office. About the AuthorTOI Entertainment DeskThe TOI Entertainment Desk is a dynamic and dedicated team of journalists, working tirelessly to bring the pulse of the entertainment world straight to the readers of The Times of India. No red carpet goes unrolled, no stage goes dark - our team spans the globe, bringing you the latest scoops and insider insights from Bollywood to Hollywood, and every entertainment hotspot in between. We don't just report; we tell tales of stardom and stories untold. Whether it's the rise of a new sensation or the seasoned journey of an industry veteran, the TOI Entertainment Desk is your front-row seat to the fascinating narratives that shape the entertainment landscape. Beyond the breaking news, we present a celebration of culture. We explore the intersections of entertainment with society, politics, and everyday life.Read More

