https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/aryan-khans-the-bads-of-bollywood-leading-man-lakshya-once-called-him-perfect-example-of-an-ideal-boy-woh-pair-choohta-hai-/articleshow/123447626.cms

Lakshya: Aryan is the PERFECT EXAMPLE of an ideal boy

Lakshya, after his debut in 'Kill', is set to star in Aryan Khan's directorial debut, 'The Ba***ds of Bollywood'. An old interview resurfaced where Lakshya defended star kids like Janhvi Kapoor and Ananya Panday, praising their good nature. He also shared an anecdote about Aryan Khan's respectful behavior towards his parents at the 'Kill' screening.

Lakshya, after his debut in 'Kill', is set to star in Aryan Khan's directorial debut, 'The Ba***ds of Bollywood'. An old interview resurfaced where Lakshya defended star kids like Janhvi Kapoor and Ananya Panday, praising their good nature. He also shared an anecdote about Aryan Khan's respectful behavior towards his parents at the 'Kill' screening.  Actor Lakshya, had to wait years on end before he could finally get his Bollywood debut. However, after breaking onto the big screens with 'Kill', there has been just no stopping him. The actor is now gearing up to star in Aryan Khan’s upcoming directorial debut 'The Ba***ds of Bollywood', however, did you know that the two were friends?Stars hail Aryan Khan for 'Ba***ds of Bollywood'| Preview sparks rave reviewsOn nepotism debateAs the boys get ready to present their new series to the audience this September, a throwback comment Lakshya made about his director has now gone viral. In an interview with Fever FM, the actor addressed the debate on nepotism in Bollywood. “Difference I think bahar waale log zyaada banate hain. Andar kuchh hai nahi. Because aadhe toh mere dost hi hain saare. Janhvi (Kapoor), Shanaya (Kapoor), Ananya (Panday), Agastya (Nanda). Aur itne sahi log hain naa yeh. Itne correct hain, koi complications nahi hai, koi insecurities nahi hain. Apna kaam karte hain aur tameesdaar log hain, (I think the difference (between outsiders and star kids) is mostly made by people outside. Within the industry, there’s nothing like that. Because honestly, half of them are my friends—Janhvi (Kapoor), Shanaya (Kapoor), Ananya (Panday), Agastya (Nanda). And they’re all such good people. So correct, no complications, no insecurities. They just do their work and they’re well-mannered),” he told the portal. On Aryan Khan's touching behaviourSharing a personal anecdote, Lakshya recalled how Aryan attended the screening of 'Kill' and recalled his touching gesture on meeting his parents. “Aryan (Khan) humaare dost hain. Aryan was there in the screening and I made him meet my parents. And my father said, ‘He doesn’t look like he’s Shah Rukh Khan’s son.’ Like woh pair wair (proceeded to make the gesture of touching feet), matlab he’s just a perfect example of how a boy should be (Aryan is our friend. He came to the screening and I introduced him to my parents. And my father said, ‘He doesn’t look like he’s Shah Rukh Khan’s son.’ Like he was bowing and touching feet—it means he’s just a perfect example of how a boy should be).”Raghav on Aryan's 'great values'Raghav Juyal, who played the antagonist in 'Kill' and now stars as Lakshya’s best friend in 'The Ba***ds of Bollywood', echoed similar sentiments. “Bohot tehzeeb, usse naa bohot culture diya hua hai Aryan ko, (He has a lot of manners; Aryan has been raised with great values and culture),” he added.The highly anticipated series that also stars Bobby Deol and Sahher Bambba, with cameos by Salman Khan, Ranveer Singh, and Karan Johar, will have its digital release on September 18, 2025."Get the latest updates on Times of India, including reviews of the movie Coolie  and War 2."About the AuthorTOI Entertainment DeskThe TOI Entertainment Desk is a dynamic and dedicated team of journalists, working tirelessly to bring the pulse of the entertainment world straight to the readers of The Times of India. No red carpet goes unrolled, no stage goes dark - our team spans the globe, bringing you the latest scoops and insider insights from Bollywood to Hollywood, and every entertainment hotspot in between. We don't just report; we tell tales of stardom and stories untold. Whether it's the rise of a new sensation or the seasoned journey of an industry veteran, the TOI Entertainment Desk is your front-row seat to the fascinating narratives that shape the entertainment landscape. Beyond the breaking news, we present a celebration of culture. We explore the intersections of entertainment with society, politics, and everyday life.Read More

