https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/punjabi/movies/news/carry-on-jatta-to-jihne-mera-dil-luteya-here-are-jaswinder-bhallas-most-loved-movies-to-remember-him-by/articleshow/123445477.cms

Iconic roles of late Jaswinder Bhalla

Veteran Punjabi comedian and actor Jaswinder Bhalla has sadly passed away at the age of 65, leaving behind a remarkable legacy in the film industry. Bhalla, known for his comedic timing and memorable dialogues, began his career in 1988 and starred in numerous popular films like 'Carry On Jatta' and 'Jatt and Juliet'.

Veteran Punjabi comedian and actor Jaswinder Bhalla has sadly passed away at the age of 65, leaving behind a remarkable legacy in the film industry. Bhalla, known for his comedic timing and memorable dialogues, began his career in 1988 and starred in numerous popular films like 'Carry On Jatta' and 'Jatt and Juliet'.  TRIGGER WARNING: This article contains mention of death.Veteran Punjabi comedian and actor Jaswinder Bhalla has passed away at the age of 65. The prolific actor and comedian leaves behind a rich legacy of humor through his films. The news of his sudden demise has been shocking for his fans and family members.About Jaswinder BhallaThe comedian and actor was born on May 4, 1960, in Ludhiana. He began his career much later in life, in 1988, after his hit series ‘Chhankata 88’, kick-started his career as a comedian. He later also tried his hand at acting as well, and ended up making his debut with the film ‘Dulla Bhatti’, and the rest is history. Since then, the star has managed to work in some of the most popular films in the industry, such as ‘Jihne Mera Dil Luteya’, ‘Kabaddi Once Again’, and many others. Actor Jaswinder Bhalla spreads 'stay home, stay safe' messageThe actor was known for various films and had a number of dialogues that made him extremely famous. Here are some of his most iconic movies to remember him by.‘Carry On Jatta’ franchiseOne of his biggest hits was with ‘Carry On Jatta’, where he played the role of Advocate Dhillon, alongside names such as Gippy Grewal and Binnu Dhillon. The film became so popular amongst the masses that a total of three instalments were made, all of which were huge hits. The premise of the film follows the story of Jass and Mahie, who end up falling in love, but their family equations lead to major chaos.PollWhat do you miss most about Jaswinder Bhalla?His Unforgettable CharactersHis Hilarious Comedy Timing‘Power Cut’Jaswinder Bhalla starred in ‘Power Cut’ along with Jaspal Bhatti, Jasraj Bhatti, Surilie Gautam, Savita Bhatti, Daljit Arora, and Prem Chopra. The film follows the themes of power outages and corruption in India, and shares the story of three men desperate for jobs who approach the chief managing director of Power Corporation. Rather than getting jobs, they end up humiliating the man instead. It also tells the love story between two young boys who are wooed by the same girl named Bijli.‘Jatt and Juliet’Jaswinder Bhalla’s role as a cop in this Diljit Dosanjh and Neeru Bajwa starrer is simply impeccable. His comedy timing, the way he delivers his dialogues, everything about him has an effortless charm.‘Jihne Mera Dil Luteya’The film follows a love triangle, where Yuvraj and Gurnoor, who have been best friends since their days in college, end up trying to get together with the same girl, Noor. Another factor that adds a hilarious touch to the film is that neither of their families gets along despite their bond, providing another level of comedy in the film. Jaswinder Bhalla takes on the role of Professor Bhalla in the film and delivers the hilarious punches throughout the movie.See More:Punjabi actor-comedian Jaswinder Bhalla passes away; cause of death reported as brain stroke‘Shinda Shinda No Papa’His last role before his untimely demise was in ‘Shinda Shinda No Papa’, which was released in 2024, where he starred along with big names from the industry, such as Gippy Grewal and Hina Khan. The film follows a family’s story who come to India from Canada to teach their spoilt son some manners the ‘old-fashioned way’. In the film, Bhalla plays the role of a police officer who adds to the already comedic narrative of the film."Get the latest updates on Times of India, including reviews of the movie Coolie  and War 2."About the AuthorTOI Entertainment DeskThe TOI Entertainment Desk is a dynamic and dedicated team of journalists, working tirelessly to bring the pulse of the entertainment world straight to the readers of The Times of India. No red carpet goes unrolled, no stage goes dark - our team spans the globe, bringing you the latest scoops and insider insights from Bollywood to Hollywood, and every entertainment hotspot in between. We don't just report; we tell tales of stardom and stories untold. Whether it's the rise of a new sensation or the seasoned journey of an industry veteran, the TOI Entertainment Desk is your front-row seat to the fascinating narratives that shape the entertainment landscape. Beyond the breaking news, we present a celebration of culture. We explore the intersections of entertainment with society, politics, and everyday life.Read More

