https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/push-for-handicrafts-textiles-minister-giriraj-singh-inaugurates-retail-hub-in-delhi-the-kunj-envisaged-as-a-model-for-initiatives-nationwide/articleshow/123443909.cms

Push for handicrafts: Textiles minister Giriraj Singh inaugurates retail hub in Delhi; ‘The Kunj’ envisaged as a model for initiatives nationwide

Union minister Giriraj Singh launched 'The Kunj' in Delhi, a retail and cultural hub showcasing Indian handicrafts and handlooms. This initiative aims to provide artisans with enhanced market access and offer visitors immersive experiences with India's craft heritage. The space features retail showrooms, live demonstrations, workshops, and exhibitions, with plans to replicate this model nationwide to promote traditional crafts.

Union minister Giriraj Singh launched 'The Kunj' in Delhi, a retail and cultural hub showcasing Indian handicrafts and handlooms. This initiative aims to provide artisans with enhanced market access and offer visitors immersive experiences with India's craft heritage. The space features retail showrooms, live demonstrations, workshops, and exhibitions, with plans to replicate this model nationwide to promote traditional crafts. Picture source: X/Giriraj Singh NEW: Union minister of Textiles Giriraj Singh inaugurated a retail and cultural space dedicated to Indian handicrafts and handlooms in Delhi on Thursday.The Kunj, set up in Vasant Kunj by the development commissioner (handicrafts), is designed to give artisans better access to buyers and to let visitors engage more closely with India’s craft traditions.Union Minister Giriraj Singh slams CM Mamata over TMC leader’s alleged warning to CM Yogi The inauguration was attended by senior officials from the ministry of textiles, including the secretary (textiles), development commissioner (handicrafts), and development commissioner (handlooms), along with industry representatives..The Kunj combines retail showrooms, live craft demonstrations, interactive workshops, exhibitions, and a culinary experience. Officials said the three-month inaugural programme will allow visitors to explore a variety of craft forms and interact with artisans directly. During the visit, Union minister Giriraj Singh engaged with artisans, brand owners, and curators. He also inaugurated the newly constructed Shilp Bhawan, the office of the development commissioner (handicrafts). The Kunj is being positioned as a model for similar initiatives across the country, to promote traditional crafts and create contemporary retail opportunities for artisans.About the AuthorTOI News DeskThe TOI News Desk comprises a dedicated and tireless team of journalists who operate around the clock to deliver the most current and comprehensive news and updates to the readers of The Times of India worldwide. With an unwavering commitment to excellence in journalism, our team is at the forefront of gathering, verifying, and presenting breaking news, in-depth analysis, and insightful reports on a wide range of topics. The TOI News Desk is your trusted source for staying informed and connected to the ever-evolving global landscape, ensuring that our readers are equipped with the latest developments that matter most."Read More

