https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/the-house-will-consider-hemant-soren-on-bharat-ratna-call-for-shibu-soren-jmm-urges-government-to-send-proposal-to-centre/articleshow/123452442.cms

'The House will consider': Hemant Soren on Bharat Ratna call for Shibu Soren; JMM urges government to send proposal to Centre

Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren responded to the call for Bharat Ratna to be awarded to his father, Shibu Soren, acknowledging the sentiment of the House. The JMM has formally requested the state government to propose and pass a resolution recommending the honor for Shibu Soren, highlighting his contributions to the Jharkhand statehood movement, tribal rights, and social justice.

Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren responded to the call for Bharat Ratna to be awarded to his father, Shibu Soren, acknowledging the sentiment of the House. The JMM has formally requested the state government to propose and pass a resolution recommending the honor for Shibu Soren, highlighting his contributions to the Jharkhand statehood movement, tribal rights, and social justice. Hemant Soren (PTI image) NEW DELHI: Jharkhand chief ministerHemant Soren grew emotional while expressing his views on the demand to confer the Bharat Ratna, India’s highest civilian award, on his father and Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) supremo Shibu Soren. "It is the emotion of the House. The members presented the public sentiment in the House. The House will consider," Soren said. On Thursday, the ruling JMM urged the chief minister to introduce and pass a proposal for conferring the Bharat Ratna on Shibu Soren.Shibu Soren Dies At 81: President Murmu, PM Modi, Leaders Remember A Tribal Icon, Political TitanAlong with other leaders, JMM general secretary Vinod Pandey, in a formal statement issued on behalf of the party, urged the state government to pass a resolution in the Assembly recommending Bharat Ratna for Shibu Soren and forward it to the Centre."We urge the state govt to pass a proposal for Bharat Ratna to late Guruji and send it to the central govt," Pandey said."The govt should ensure that the voice of the assembly, united in respect for Guruji, must reach Delhi. Shibuji has been the tallest leader of the statehood movement. His life is a remarkable example of sacrifice, struggle, and service. He led public movements against alcoholism and the moneylending system, connected the tribal community with education and social awareness, and brought the movement for a separate Jharkhand state to a decisive point. He deserve Bharat Ratna," he added.Shibu Soren, popularly known as Dishom Guru, is regarded as a prominent figure in Indian tribal politics and played a key role in the Jharkhand statehood movement. A three-time Chief Minister and former Union Minister, he was at the forefront of tribal rights and social justice struggles in the region.He was admitted to Sir Ganga Ram Hospital in Delhi in the last week of June with a kidney-related ailment and passed away on August 4 at the age of 81. On the same day, the ongoing state Assembly monsoon session was suspended abruptly following his demise. The current session will now run until October 28. About the AuthorTOI News DeskThe TOI News Desk comprises a dedicated and tireless team of journalists who operate around the clock to deliver the most current and comprehensive news and updates to the readers of The Times of India worldwide. With an unwavering commitment to excellence in journalism, our team is at the forefront of gathering, verifying, and presenting breaking news, in-depth analysis, and insightful reports on a wide range of topics. The TOI News Desk is your trusted source for staying informed and connected to the ever-evolving global landscape, ensuring that our readers are equipped with the latest developments that matter most."Read More

