https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/we-saw-how-files-were-being-signed-from-jail-pm-modi-on-bill-to-sack-jailed-pm-cms-jibe-at-opposition/articleshow/123448321.cms

'We saw how files were being signed from jail ...': PM Modi on bill to sack jailed PM, CMs; jibe at opposition

Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated and laid the foundation for development projects worth Rs 13,000 crore in Gaya, Bihar, focusing on power, roads, urban infrastructure, health, and water supply. He flagged off the Amrit Bharat Express and Buddhist Circuit Train.

Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated and laid the foundation for development projects worth Rs 13,000 crore in Gaya, Bihar, focusing on power, roads, urban infrastructure, health, and water supply. He flagged off the Amrit Bharat Express and Buddhist Circuit Train.  NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday hit out at the Opposition during a rally in Gaya, questioning how chief ministers can continue in office even after being jailed while government employees face suspension if imprisoned for more than 50 hours. “If a government employee is imprisoned for 50 hours, then he loses his job automatically, be it a driver, a clerk or a peon. But a CM, a minister, or even a PM can enjoy staying in the government even from jail... Some time ago, we saw how files were being signed from jail and how government orders were given from jail. If leaders have such an attitude, how can we fight corruption... NDA government has brought a law against corruption, and the Prime Minister also comes under its purview...,” PM Modi said.Opposition accused of shielding leaders The Prime Minister alleged that parties such as Congress, RJD and the Left are opposing new laws to ensure accountability. “Our forefathers, like Rajendra Babu, could not have imagined that those in jail would continue to occupy constitutional positions,” he said, adding that these parties fear scrutiny “as they have committed wrongs and fear the consequences.”PM Modi also accused them of protecting what he called “intruders” for electoral gains. “I had expressed concern about intruders, we can’t allow them to settle and take away rights of country’s youth. We shall ensure they are identified. Congress and RJD are protecting these intruders for vote bank and appeasement. People of Bihar need to be careful about intruders,” he said.Development push worth Rs 13,000 crore Alongside the political attack, PM Modi inaugurated and laid the foundation stone of development projects worth around Rs 13,000 crore across Bihar, covering power, roads, health, urban infrastructure and water supply. He flagged off the Amrit Bharat Express between Gaya and Delhi and the Buddhist Circuit Train between Vaishali and Koderma, saying they would improve connectivity and tourism at Buddhist sites. Urban projects worth Rs 1,260 crore were launched, including sewerage networks in Aurangabad, Jehanabad, Lakhisarai and Jamui, and water supply initiatives in Aurangabad, Bodhgaya and Jehanabad under AMRUT 2.0. In a major infrastructure boost, Modi inaugurated the 8.15 km Aunta-Simaria bridge on NH-31, including a six-lane stretch over the Ganga built at a cost of Rs 1,870 crore. Officials said it will cut detours of over 100 km for heavy vehicles, ease congestion and improve access to Simaria Dham, birthplace of poet Ramdhari Singh Dinkar. The Prime Minister also opened the Bakhtiyarpur–Mokama section of NH-31 worth Rs 1,900 crore, and announced upgrades to the NH-120 Bikramganj–Dawath–Nawanagar–Dumraon section to strengthen rural connectivity. Bihar’s power sector received a major addition with the inauguration of the Rs 6,880 crore Buxar Thermal Power Plant (660x1 MW), expected to meet rising energy demands.Health and sanitation projects In health, PM Modi inaugurated the Homi Bhabha Cancer Hospital and Research Centre at Muzaffarpur, equipped with modern oncology facilities, ICUs and labs to provide advanced treatment to patients in Bihar and neighbouring states. He also launched a sewage treatment plant and sewerage network in Munger under Namami Gange, worth Rs 520 crore, aimed at reducing pollution in the Ganga.Hits out at RJD and Congress PM Modi criticised RJD’s governance record: “Remember the condition here during the rule of lantern (RJD). This region was in the clutches of red terror. Cities like Gaya Ji were in darkness during the rule of 'lantern' (RJD)... They had pushed the entire state into darkness. There was no education or employment. So many generations were forced to migrate. RJD considers the people of Bihar only as their vote bank. They want nothing to do with their life, sorrows, or respect.” He also targeted Congress, recalling a past remark: “A Congress CM had said that he will not let people of Bihar enter his state. No one can forget Congress' hate for the people of Bihar. Despite seeing the Congress' misbehaviour with the people of Bihar, the RJD were in deep sleep... NDA is working hard so that the youth of Bihar can get employment here in their state, so that they get respect and they are able to stay with their parents.”On terrorism and national security Linking Bihar’s legacy to India’s security policy, PM Modi said: “A pledge taken on the soil of Bihar is never left unfulfilled. When there was a terrorist attack in Kashmir’s Pahalgam and our innocent citizens were killed, from this land of Bihar, I had said that terrorists would be crushed. Today the world is witnessing that the pledge taken from Bihar has been fulfilled... Operation Sindoor has drawn a new line in India’s security policy. Now, no one who sends terrorists to attack India will be spared.” “Bihar is the land of Chanakya and Chandragupta Maurya. Bihar has stood as the backbone of the country at all times. Every resolve made on this pious land is the strength of the country and doesn't go in vain. When the Pahalgam terror attack happened, I had vowed to reduce the terrorists to dust from this land. The world has seen that resolve getting fulfilled,” he added.About the AuthorTOI News DeskThe TOI News Desk comprises a dedicated and tireless team of journalists who operate around the clock to deliver the most current and comprehensive news and updates to the readers of The Times of India worldwide. With an unwavering commitment to excellence in journalism, our team is at the forefront of gathering, verifying, and presenting breaking news, in-depth analysis, and insightful reports on a wide range of topics. The TOI News Desk is your trusted source for staying informed and connected to the ever-evolving global landscape, ensuring that our readers are equipped with the latest developments that matter most."Read More

