https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/surprised-over-political-parties-inaction-supreme-court-on-bihar-sir-over-deleted-voters-ec-defends-roll-revision/articleshow/123449637.cms

'Accept Aadhaar or any 11 docs': SC says Bihar SIR exercise should be voter friendly; expresses surprise over political parties’ 'inaction'

The Supreme Court has expressed concern over the limited involvement of political parties in rectifying voter deletions during Bihar's Special Intensive Revision. Despite the Election Commission adding 85,000 new voters, only two objections were filed by political parties.

The Supreme Court has expressed concern over the limited involvement of political parties in rectifying voter deletions during Bihar's Special Intensive Revision. Despite the Election Commission adding 85,000 new voters, only two objections were filed by political parties.  NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Friday expressed surprise at the lack of political parties’ involvement in correcting names of voters deleted during the Special Intensive Revision (SIR) of electoral rolls in Bihar. The top court also said that claim forms can be submitted along with Aadhaar card or any other 11 acceptable documents."We will allow online submission of claims of deleted voters with Aadhaar card or any other acceptable documents for Bihar SIR," the bench said, as quoted by PTI."All the political parties shall file the status report by the next date of hearing on the claim form they had facilitated in filing by excluded voters," the bench added.The matter has been posted for hearing on September 8.During the hearing, the Election Commission informed the court that while 85,000 new voters had been added in the ongoing revision, only two objections had been filed by booth-level agents of political parties.PollDo you think the voter list revision in Bihar is being handled effectively?Yes, the process is transparent and fairNo, more needs to be done to include all votersA bench of Justices Surya Kant and Joymalya Bagchi resumed hearing a batch of petitions challenging the SIR exercise. The petitions were filed by RJD MP Manoj Jha, the Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR), PUCL, activist Yogendra Yadav, Trinamool Congress MP Mahua Moitra and former Bihar MLA Mujahid Alam.The petitioners have sought to quash the ECI’s June 24 directive, which requires large numbers of voters in Bihar to submit proof of citizenship to stay on the rolls. What happened earlierOn August 14, Election Commission uploaded details of 65 lakh deleted voters from Bihar’s draft electoral rolls on district magistrates’ websites, following a Supreme Court order. Chief election commissioner Gyanesh Kumar said the move was made “within 56 hours of the top court directive” to ensure transparency. He explained that Electoral Registration Officers and Booth Level Officers bear responsibility for the accuracy of rolls, which are shared digitally and physically with parties and the public. Draft rolls in Bihar, published on August 1, remain open for claims and objections until September 1.Defending the exercise, Kumar said it was a “matter of grave concern” that some parties were spreading “misinformation”, stressing that India’s election system is a “multi-layered, decentralised construct as envisaged by law.”During the previous hearing, the Supreme Court said it could set aside the results of the special intensive revision if illegality was proven. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, for RJD MP Manoj Jha, argued the exclusion of 65 lakh voters was unlawful, while Prashant Bhushan accused the EC of making the rolls non-searchable. The court countered claims about lack of documents, saying “everybody possesses some certificate.” The hearing will continue, with the final rolls due on September 30.About the AuthorTOI News DeskThe TOI News Desk comprises a dedicated and tireless team of journalists who operate around the clock to deliver the most current and comprehensive news and updates to the readers of The Times of India worldwide. With an unwavering commitment to excellence in journalism, our team is at the forefront of gathering, verifying, and presenting breaking news, in-depth analysis, and insightful reports on a wide range of topics. The TOI News Desk is your trusted source for staying informed and connected to the ever-evolving global landscape, ensuring that our readers are equipped with the latest developments that matter most."Read More

