https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/couldnt-tolerate-my-jovial-nature-tej-pratap-yadav-says-5-families-conspired-to-ruin-his-life-vows-to-expose-them/articleshow/123443310.cms

'Couldn't tolerate my jovial nature': Tej Pratap Yadav says 5 families conspired to ruin his life; vows to expose them

Tej Pratap Yadav, expelled from RJD, alleges a conspiracy by five powerful families to ruin his political and personal life. He promises to expose them, claiming they were jealous of his popularity and colluded with BJP and RSS to tarnish his image. This follows his expulsion from RJD and the launch of his own political outfit.

Tej Pratap Yadav, expelled from RJD, alleges a conspiracy by five powerful families to ruin his political and personal life. He promises to expose them, claiming they were jealous of his popularity and colluded with BJP and RSS to tarnish his image. This follows his expulsion from RJD and the launch of his own political outfit.  NEW DELHI: Expelled RJD leader and former Bihar minister Tej Pratap Yadav on Thursday alleged that five powerful families conspired against him to destroy both his political and personal life. The elder son of RJD chief Lalu Prasad Yadav claimed he would soon reveal their identities.'Threat To Life, But Not Scared': Tej Pratap's Explosive Revelation, Throws Challenge to RJD Leaders“Five families together and in a broader conspiracy tried to end my political life. In my more than ten years of political life, I have never wronged anyone, nor have I ever conspired against anyone. But these five families have made every effort to destroy my political and family life completely,” Tej Pratap wrote on X.He further said, “Tomorrow (Friday), I will bring the faces and characters of all five families before the public. I am going to expose each of their conspiracies tomorrow.”On Wednesday, Tej Pratap had also posted, “Five people worked together to completely ruin my life... They could not tolerate my jovial nature and hence made such allegations to ruin my career. I will go to court and file a case too... I think these people took money from RSS and BJP and tried to tarnish my image because they saw that elections are coming and there is a craze among the youth for me. I will soon put the names of these people from five families in front of everyone... These conspirators have a gang from Patna to Delhi... They used to be in RJD but were expelled due to their misdeeds... These individuals have no other job except to be constantly active on social media, using it to tarnish the image of others...”Tej Pratap’s remarks come months after his father Lalu Prasad expelled him from the Rashtriya Janata Dal and “family” for six years in May, after a controversial Facebook post claimed he had been in a 12-year-long relationship with a woman named Anushka Yadav. Tej Pratap later alleged that his Facebook account had been hacked and that the post was part of a conspiracy against him.Following his expulsion, Tej Pratap launched a separate political outfit under the banner of ‘Team Tej Pratap Yadav’ and aligned with five smaller parties to contest the upcoming 2025 Bihar assembly elections. He has been campaigning aggressively across the state, often calling his rivals “Jaychand” (traitors).Lalu Prasad earlier in May had justified the expulsion by saying, “Ignoring moral values in personal life weakens our collective struggle for social justice. The actions, public conduct, and irresponsible behavior of my eldest son are not in accordance with our family’s principles. Therefore, under these circumstances, I am removing him from the party and the family.”Tej Pratap’s younger brother and leader of opposition in Bihar, Tejashwi Yadav, had said at the time that while the party would not tolerate such controversies, his brother was “an adult and free to make decisions.”About the AuthorTOI News DeskThe TOI News Desk comprises a dedicated and tireless team of journalists who operate around the clock to deliver the most current and comprehensive news and updates to the readers of The Times of India worldwide. With an unwavering commitment to excellence in journalism, our team is at the forefront of gathering, verifying, and presenting breaking news, in-depth analysis, and insightful reports on a wide range of topics. The TOI News Desk is your trusted source for staying informed and connected to the ever-evolving global landscape, ensuring that our readers are equipped with the latest developments that matter most."Read More

