https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/2026-tn-election-a-direct-fight-between-tvk-dmk-vijay/articleshow/123442609.cms

2026 Tamil Nadu election a direct fight between TVK & DMK: Vijay



2026 Tamil Nadu election a direct fight between TVK & DMK: VijayVivanesh Parthiban / TNN / Updated: Aug 22, 2025, 10:14 ISTShareAA+Text SizeSmallMediumLarge  MADURAI: TVK chief Vijay on Thursday positioned himself as the alternative to “Stalin uncle” saying the 2026 assembly election would be a straight fight between his party and DMK.In a fiery 34-minute speech at TVK’s second state conference at Parapathi, Madurai, Vijay accused DMK of hypocrisy. “You ask women to call you appa (father), but there is no safety for women themselves,” he said addressing Stalin, before asking the crowd if DMK had fulfilled its promises. As they shouted “no,” he said, “Stalin uncle, hear the noise of the people.”BJP, AIADMK Stitch Alliance to Contest 2026 Tamil Nadu Assembly Polls TogetherOn DMK’s approach to BJP, Vijay accused the ruling party of shifting positions. “When in opposition, they flew black balloons against Modi. Now, as the ruling party, they welcome him. Whenever ED raids take place, they rush to Delhi and the raids fade away. Stalin uncle, what uncle? It is very wrong uncle,” he said, and the gathered cadres burst into laughter.The TVK chief also posed pointed questions to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, asking whether he had come to power for the third time “to do good for the people or to plot something against the Muslim community”. He pressed Centre to retrieve Katchatheevu island, withdraw NEET and resolve the plight of “around 800 fishermen” arrested by the Sri Lankan Navy. He accused BJP of hiding facts about the Keeladi excavations and depending on “alliance partners without real people power” to extend its rule till 2029.Without naming AIADMK, Vijay said BJP was using the party once nurtured by M G Ramachandran as a “backdoor to enter Tamil Nadu”. He said that even that party’s cadres were upset with their present state.TVK, he said, would be a “truly secular party” that would never have any hidden tie-up with BJP. He added that alliances under TVK would give equal power to partners.Indirectly addressing critics, Vijay said, “A lion comes to the ground only to hunt, not to pass time. Even if it is single, it will be the king of the jungle. It is not just a description but a clear declaration.” He greeted his cadres as “lion cubs” and described TVK as an “army of common people.”Vijay said TVK had already created “ripples” in state politics. “Many said I will not enter politics, then that I will not get support, then that I cannot conduct a conference. Now they say I cannot win elections. They also say this crowd may not translate into votes. To those analysts, I say — this crowd is not just support, we have already entered every household in the state.”He emphasised that the safety of women, children and the elderly would be TVK’s top priority, and pledged welfare measures for youth, farmers, labourers, weavers, fisherfolk, the disabled, elderly and transpersons.Amid cheers, Vijay made a surprise announcement, saying he would contest from Madurai East constituency in 2026. After a short pause, Vijay named all the nine remaining constituencies and asked people to assume that he himself is contesting in all 234 assembly constituencies in the state.In a symbolic gesture, he sang an MGR song from the movie ‘Enga Veetu Pillai’, asking whether people could “take the whip of politics” and use it against both BJP and DMK.Vijay concluded with a parting shot at stereotypes about actors in politics. “Leaders such as Ambedkar, Kamaraj and Nallakannu were defeated by politicians, not by cinema actors. Not all politicians are knowledgeable, and not every actor is an idiot,” he declared, drawing loud applause.

