https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/sports/tennis/top-stories/reimagined-us-open-mixed-doubles-was-a-success-but-sara-errani-andrea-vavassori-complete-mission/articleshow/123445909.cms

'Reimagined' US Open mixed doubles was a success but Errani- Vavassori complete 'mission'

The US Open mixed doubles event had many winners - Sara Errani and Andrea Vavassori as champions while carrying the mantle for the doubles specialists. And the USTA in bringing thousands of fans to an otherwise ignored competition. But teething problems cannot be ignored.

The US Open mixed doubles event had many winners - Sara Errani and Andrea Vavassori as champions while carrying the mantle for the doubles specialists. And the USTA in bringing thousands of fans to an otherwise ignored competition. But teething problems cannot be ignored. Sara Errani and Andrea Vavassori kiss the trophy after winning the revamped US Open mixed doubles title. (AP) When Sara Errani and Andrea Vavassori stepped on to the court at Flushing Meadows, they weren’t just defending their US Open mixed doubles title. They were fighting for doubles specialists everywhere as the event had been overhauled into a 16-team ‘spectacle’ starring singles superstars, backed by $1 million prize money and a radical Fast4 tennis format.Unseeded and wildcards Errani and Vavassori were injected into a field that had numerous headline acts. Carlos Alcaraz, Jannik Sinner, Aryna Sabalenka (both withdrew), Novak Djokovic, Taylor Fritz, Iga Swiatek, Emma Raducanu, Jessica Pegula and Madison Keys were some of the big names involved.But the winners were still to be crowned Grand Slam champions and that’s what irked doubles specialists who couldn't be part of the event and not by choice.Unsurprisingly, there was an outcry. Jamie Murray dismissed it as "a glorified exhibition." Errani-Vavassori had said in a joint statement that it was "pseudo-exhibition" and “profound injustice” which “disrespect(s) an entire category of players.”Rather hilariously, Casper Ruud, who has lost three major singles finals, was positioned as someone chasing their maiden Grand Slam title."I know it created a lot of reaction and [it was] somewhat bold to do it," said Ruud on United States Tennis Association's (USTA) move to upend the event that gets largely ignored otherwise. "You can't argue that it's not been great for the fans."Casper Ruud plays with Iga Swiatek during the mixed doubles final at the US Open tennis championships. (AP)If the objective was to draw fans, bring attention to the event that otherwise gets lost and ignored and get viewers hooked to the TV, one can reasonably argue that the goal has been met.But at what cost? The 138-year tradition was ripped apart. As was the chance for many doubles specialists to win a major tournament, including this year's Wimbledon champions Sam Verbeek and Katerina Siniakova. To add to the injustice of it all, doubles World No. 2 Siniakova was withdrawn from the draw at the last minute when her partner Sinner pulled out late. By then, she had skipped Cleveland to play the US Open.In the end, as far as polarising narratives go, the final offered another one. Doubles specialists vs singles specialists. It has been one of the raging arguments in the sport and rarely is it answered with much at stake. And here we were, with plenty riding on it.Sara Errani plays with Andrea Vavassori during the mixed doubles semi-final at the US Open tennis championships. (AP)Both Ruud and Swiatek found it challenging to deal with Errani's 70mph serve as Vavassori moved about at the net to cause distraction. At one point in the second set, Ruud and Swiatek were both guilty of shanking three consecutive forehand returns.Australia's Ellen Perez, a doubles specialist herself, said she had "never felt more Italian" as she supported them.The moment Vavassori landed an unpickable return on Swiatek's feet after a 92-minute match, the doubles community had been vindicated. “This is for all the doubles players who couldn’t play this tournament,” Errani said. Vavassori added: “We have been on a mission.”"We showed that doubles is a great product and in the future we need more marketing and visibility," Vavassori shot out at the US Open decision-makers.Carlos Alcaraz and Emma Raducanu celebrate during their mixed doubles match at the US Open tennis championships. (AP)But the success of the two-day doubles showdown, where singles players seemingly enjoyed, Louis Armstrong and Arthur Ashe Stadium were used and DJs worked overtime, could mean USTA sticks by this structure instead of tinkering with it and introducing more doubles teams for the future.Jack Draper and Karolina Muchova called it an 'exhibition' - a word that is disparagingly used by athletes. On the opening day, it appeared to be the case. With two courts in use, giant screens showing the other match as well and attention being dragged, the quality felt laboured. The semi-finals and final turned that notion around with a more serious feel to it.PollHow do you feel about the decision to feature singles players in the mixed doubles event?It's a great idea for visibility.It undermines doubles specialists.It should remain separate.If the US Open continues with the mixed doubles event for the future, it must come with some much-needed changes. As far as the playing field is concerned, bringing in champions from three other majors could be an idea worth exploring to not just address the concerns of the doubles specialists but also make things even more interesting on the doubles vs singles quotient.Additionally, the tournament needs better organisation and coordination. Sabalenka and Gauff pulled out to hurt the hype train. Cincinnati Open finished mere hours before the mixed event got underway in New York and an ill Sinner withdrew while Swiatek barely made it in time.Caty McNally had just 60 seconds to agree to a partner. “Sunday night I was home in Cincinnati and my agent called me, and he said you have 60 seconds to tell me if you want to play with Lorenzo Musetti.”Many teams didn't even practice together before taking to court, which could explain the comic point involving Andrey Rublev and Muchova. Naomi Osaka played her first round match, alongside Gael Monfils, in a practice kit.The obvious exceptions to this all were the Italians Errani and Vavassori who needed 42, 56, 44 and 92 minutes, respectively, to win the title. It is worth reminding that the duo, who have won 12 major titles, were unseeded and needed a wildcard to get in.As the beaten finalist Swiatek said: “You proved that mixed doubles players are smarter tactically than singles players, I guess.”For now, as far as mic drop moments go, Errani and Vavassori had delivered it - embarrassed the US Open organisers, successfully defended their title against the best singles players in the world and walked off with a cool million dollars.Catch Rani Rampal's inspiring story on Game On, Episode 4. Watch Here!

