https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/sports/cricket/news/sa20-season-4-playoffs-and-final-venues-announced-full-details/articleshow/123451503.cms

SA20 season 4: Playoffs and final venues announced - Full details

Cricket South Africa has announced the venues for the SA20 Season 4 playoffs and final. Newlands in Cape Town will host the final. Kingsmead, Centurion, and the Wanderers will host the playoff matches in January 2026. Durban will host a playoff for the first time. The season will begin on December 26.

Cricket South Africa has announced the venues for the SA20 Season 4 playoffs and final. Newlands in Cape Town will host the final. Kingsmead, Centurion, and the Wanderers will host the playoff matches in January 2026. Durban will host a playoff for the first time. The season will begin on December 26. MI Cape Town won the SA20 final in 2025 (Image via X) Cape Town’s Newlands Cricket Ground has been confirmed as the venue for the SA20 Season 4 Final, while Kingsmead, Centurion and the Wanderers will stage the crucial Playoff matches in January 2026. The season begins on December 26. For the first time in the league’s history, Durban will host a Playoff, with Kingsmead set to stage Qualifier 1 on Wednesday, January 21. The match will feature the top two teams from the group stage in a direct battle for a place in the final.Go Beyond The Boundary with our YouTube channel. SUBSCRIBE NOW! The Highveld will then take centre stage. Centurion is scheduled to host the Eliminator on Thursday, January 22, while the Wanderers in Johannesburg will stage Qualifier 2 the following day, which decides the second finalist. All previous SA20 finals have been played in front of capacity crowds, and League Commissioner Graeme Smith expects that trend to continue. “SA20 Season 4 is shaping up to be an incredibly exciting summer of cricket, kicking off on Boxing Day and running through the holiday period,” Smith said. “Last year Newlands sold out all five matches at the venue and with the Final taking place on a Sunday, it sets up an incredible afternoon with great weather, entertainment and a lively atmosphere to crown our Season 4 Champions.” Smith also highlighted Durban’s new role in the Playoffs. “Durban will host a Playoff for the first time and we’re hoping this will excite the fans, especially because the two best teams of the competition will be playing in that Qualifier 1,” he said. “We’re also excited to go back to Centurion and Wanderers on the Thursday and Friday nights, it’s always key to have the venues close together because the matches are a day apart.” The Commissioner admitted scheduling the knockout stages is always a challenge given the short turnaround after the group phase. “It's always an interesting challenge for us to get the scheduling of the Playoff matches done and done well. Especially after an exciting Group Match stage that finishes two days before the first Playoff match. I am looking forward to seeing who will be competing.”PollDo you think Durban hosting a Playoff for the first time will attract more fans?Yes, definitelyNo, it won't make a difference The announcement of the Final and Playoff venues comes ahead of the Season 4 Player Auction on September 9, when the six franchises will complete their 19-player squads. With a total purse of $7.4 million (Over ₹64 crore) available, star Proteas and international cricketers will go under the hammer. The auction will be broadcast live on JioHotstar in India from 5 PM IST.Catch Rani Rampal's inspiring story on Game On, Episode 4. Watch Here!About the AuthorTOI Sports DeskThe TOI Sports Desk excels in a myriad of roles that capture the essence of live sporting events and deliver compelling content to readers worldwide. 

From running live blogs for India and non-India cricket matches to global spectacles featuring Indian talents, like the Chess World Cup final featuring Praggnanandhaa and the Badminton World Championships semifinal featuring HS Prannoy, our live coverage extends to all mega sporting events. We extensively cover events like the Olympics, Asian Games, Cricket World Cups, FIFA World Cups, and more. 

The desk is also adept at writing comprehensive match reports and insightful post-match commentary, complemented by stats-based articles that provide an in-depth analysis of player performances and team dynamics. 

We track news wires for key stories, conduct exclusive player interviews in both text and video formats, and file content from print editions and reporters. We keep track of all viral stories, trending topics and produce our own copies on the subjects. 

We deliver accurate, engaging, and up-to-the-minute sports content, round the clock.Read More

