https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/sports/cricket/asia-cup/asia-cup-i-would-like-to-see-sanju-samson-play-but-former-india-captain-on-team-indias-playing-xi/articleshow/123443272.cms

‘I would like to see Samson play, but…’ – Former India captain on Team India’s playing XI

With Shubman Gill's return as vice-captain for the Asia Cup 2025, India's opening combination is under scrutiny. Ajinkya Rahane anticipates Gill partnering with Abhishek Sharma, despite Sanju Samson's strong form. Rahane also expressed excitement about the pace duo of Jasprit Bumrah and Arshdeep Singh.

With Shubman Gill's return as vice-captain for the Asia Cup 2025, India's opening combination is under scrutiny. Ajinkya Rahane anticipates Gill partnering with Abhishek Sharma, despite Sanju Samson's strong form. Rahane also expressed excitement about the pace duo of Jasprit Bumrah and Arshdeep Singh. Sanju Samson (x) With Shubman Gill returning to the Indian squad for the upcoming Asia Cup 2025, the focus has shifted to India’s opening combination. Both Sanju Samson and Abhishek Sharma have been in excellent form, scoring freely and keeping the tempo high. However, the inclusion of Gill, who has been named vice-captain, could see one of them making way. Former India captain Ajinkya Rahane believes Gill and Abhishek are most likely to open in the tournament. Speaking on his YouTube channel, Rahane said, “Shubman is back in the team, I’m sure he is most likely to open with Abhishek Sharma. Personally, I would like to see Sanju Samson in the team because he has done really well. He is a very confident guy, a very good team man, and that is very important.”Go Beyond The Boundary with our YouTube channel. SUBSCRIBE NOW! Rahane added that while Samson brings great value to the side, it is probable he might miss out. “Sanju is a great team man, but that is a very good problem to have for the team management. In my opinion, probably Sanju Samson will sit out, though as I said, I would like him to play and be in the playing XI. But Shubman Gill and Abhishek Sharma will open the innings for the team.” The former cricketer also highlighted his excitement about India’s pace attack. “I’m really excited to see Jasprit Bumrah and Arshdeep Singh bowling together in this Asia Cup. We all know how dangerous Bumrah is. Arshdeep swings the ball both ways and can deliver both straight and wide yorkers,” Rahane explained.PollDo you agree with Ajinkya Rahane's predicted opening combination of Gill and Abhishek?Yes, it's the best choiceNo, they should include Samson He further noted that the final spot in the XI will depend on conditions in Dubai. “Depending on the wicket, it will either be Varun Chakaravarthy or Harshit Rana.” Rahane’s predicted XI: Shubman Gill, Abhishek Sharma, Tilak Varma, Suryakumar Yadav (C), Hardik Pandya, Jitesh Sharma (wk), Axar Patel, Jasprit Bumrah, Arshdeep Singh, Kuldeep Yadav, Varun Chakaravarthy/Harshit Rana.Catch Rani Rampal's inspiring story on Game On, Episode 4. Watch Here!About the AuthorTOI Sports DeskThe TOI Sports Desk excels in a myriad of roles that capture the essence of live sporting events and deliver compelling content to readers worldwide. 

From running live blogs for India and non-India cricket matches to global spectacles featuring Indian talents, like the Chess World Cup final featuring Praggnanandhaa and the Badminton World Championships semifinal featuring HS Prannoy, our live coverage extends to all mega sporting events. We extensively cover events like the Olympics, Asian Games, Cricket World Cups, FIFA World Cups, and more. 

The desk is also adept at writing comprehensive match reports and insightful post-match commentary, complemented by stats-based articles that provide an in-depth analysis of player performances and team dynamics. 

We track news wires for key stories, conduct exclusive player interviews in both text and video formats, and file content from print editions and reporters. We keep track of all viral stories, trending topics and produce our own copies on the subjects. 

We deliver accurate, engaging, and up-to-the-minute sports content, round the clock.Read More

