https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/sports/off-the-field/so-much-respect-suryakumar-yadavs-wife-devisha-shetty-backs-dhanashree-verma-as-divorce-with-yuzvendra-chahal-stays-in-spotlight/articleshow/123453593.cms

'So much respect …': Surya's wife backs Dhanashree as divorce with Chahal stays in spotlight

Months after Yuzvendra Chahal and Dhanashree Verma's divorce, Suryakumar Yadav's wife, Devisha Shetty, has publicly supported Dhanashree. Following Dhanashree's emotional account on 'Humans of Bombay' about the overwhelming separation and media scrutiny, Devisha posted an Instagram story expressing her respect and love.

Months after Yuzvendra Chahal and Dhanashree Verma's divorce, Suryakumar Yadav's wife, Devisha Shetty, has publicly supported Dhanashree. Following Dhanashree's emotional account on 'Humans of Bombay' about the overwhelming separation and media scrutiny, Devisha posted an Instagram story expressing her respect and love. L-R: Suryakumar Yadav with wife Devisha Shetty; and Dhanashree Verma with Yuzvendra Chahal NEW DELHI: India spinner Yuzvendra Chahal and choreographer-actor Dhanashree Verma’s separation has remained in the public spotlight months after their divorce was finalised. While both have opened up about their journey in parts — first Chahal in a podcast and later Dhanashree in her own candid conversation — the latest development has seen an unexpected voice of support emerging from within Indian cricket circles.Go Beyond The Boundary with our YouTube channel. SUBSCRIBE NOW!Suryakumar Yadav’s wife, Devisha Shetty, publicly extended her solidarity to Dhanashree after the latter shared her experiences on the podcast ‘Humans of Bombay’. In an Instagram story that soon gained traction on social media, Devisha posted a picture of Dhanashree from the interview, captioning it: “So much respect and love for you.”The message struck a chord, with many praising Devisha for standing by her friend. Both women were often spotted together at matches during Chahal’s time in the Indian side and Suryakumar’s ongoing stint with the T20I team.Dhanashree, who finalised her divorce in March, had described the moment of separation as overwhelming. “I genuinely feel that the day it actually happened, it was very emotional for me and my family. I still remember when I was standing there and the verdict was about to be given… I literally started howling and crying in front of everybody,” she recalled on the podcast.She also revealed how the aftermath unfolded in front of the media glare. “He walked out first, that whole thing happened with the T-shirt and media, and I wasn’t aware about it because I was still inside. I got out from the back gate… I sat in the car, my best friend was there with me, and we were still trying to grasp our breath. It was that shaky moment, especially when you know people will blame you only.”Catch Rani Rampal's inspiring story on Game On, Episode 4. Watch Here!About the AuthorTOI Sports DeskThe TOI Sports Desk excels in a myriad of roles that capture the essence of live sporting events and deliver compelling content to readers worldwide. 

From running live blogs for India and non-India cricket matches to global spectacles featuring Indian talents, like the Chess World Cup final featuring Praggnanandhaa and the Badminton World Championships semifinal featuring HS Prannoy, our live coverage extends to all mega sporting events. We extensively cover events like the Olympics, Asian Games, Cricket World Cups, FIFA World Cups, and more. 

The desk is also adept at writing comprehensive match reports and insightful post-match commentary, complemented by stats-based articles that provide an in-depth analysis of player performances and team dynamics. 

We track news wires for key stories, conduct exclusive player interviews in both text and video formats, and file content from print editions and reporters. We keep track of all viral stories, trending topics and produce our own copies on the subjects. 

We deliver accurate, engaging, and up-to-the-minute sports content, round the clock.Read More

