https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/sports/cricket/news/rahul-dravids-dig-at-r-ashwin-coaching-aussies-mitchell-starc-knows-tamil/articleshow/123442727.cms

Dravid's dig at Ashwin: 'Coaching Aussies? Starc knows Tamil'

Rahul Dravid and Ravichandran Ashwin humorously revisited the 2023 Border-Gavaskar Trophy controversy, where Ashwin faced accusations of aiding Australia with spin techniques through a Tamil YouTube video. Dravid jokingly mentioned the criticism he received, suggesting Ashwin's coaching was perceived as superior. Ashwin defended himself, while recalling Mitchell Starc's playful reference to the video during the Indore Test.

Rahul Dravid and Ravichandran Ashwin humorously revisited the 2023 Border-Gavaskar Trophy controversy, where Ashwin faced accusations of aiding Australia with spin techniques through a Tamil YouTube video. Dravid jokingly mentioned the criticism he received, suggesting Ashwin's coaching was perceived as superior. Ashwin defended himself, while recalling Mitchell Starc's playful reference to the video during the Indore Test. R Ashwin and Rahul Dravid  NEW DELHI: Former India head coach Rahul Dravid and senior spinner Ravichandran Ashwin revisited a controversial moment from the 2023 Border-Gavaskar Trophy during the latest episode of Kutti Stories with Ash. The incident revolved around Ashwin facing backlash for allegedly helping Australia through a Tamil-language YouTube video on playing spin in India.The controversy erupted after Ashwin uploaded the video following Australia’s defeat in the second Test. The criticism intensified when India lost the third Test at Indore, with social media users accusing Ashwin of “coaching” the opposition. The channel was eventually forced to change the video’s thumbnail.Rahul Dravid reflects on RR's narrow losses: 'One or two hits away in every game'Go Beyond The Boundary with our YouTube channel. SUBSCRIBE NOW!Dravid light-heartedly brought up the episode with Ashwin."You even coached the Australian team. I got sent a clip. Unfortunately, it was in Tamil. So that's the one I've seen about you. You're speaking in Tamil and with a little bit of Tamil that I understand, you're coaching the Australian team in the middle of the Australian series, how to play spin. And I'm thinking, Ash, the series is not over," Dravid said.Ashwin responded in his defence: "If I knew how to do that, I would have told our boys how to play spin. I mean, why would I go and tell the Aussies?"Dravid admitted he was joking but also revealed he too had faced flak at the time. "The flak I got was 'Ashwin is coaching better than you are — what are you doing?'" he said with a laugh.PollDo you think Ashwin's YouTube video gave Australia an unfair advantage?Yes, it definitely helped themNo, it was just a learning resourceAshwin also recalled a conversation with Mitchell Starc during the Indore Test: "An interesting thing was that (Mitchell) Starc came and told me. I mean, he bowled a bumper, and I just left it in the Indore Test match. I think we were 80 for 7 or something. We went for lunch, and he was walking with me. He was like, 'Can I tell you how to play the bouncer like your YouTube video?'"Dravid further joked that the Australians might have found a translator: "It's good to know that Starc knows Tamil. I think it was maybe the Australian guys got some Tamil guy to sort of..." he said, before Ashwin clarified that the video carried subtitles.Catch Rani Rampal's inspiring story on Game On, Episode 4. Watch Here!About the AuthorTOI Sports DeskThe TOI Sports Desk excels in a myriad of roles that capture the essence of live sporting events and deliver compelling content to readers worldwide. 

From running live blogs for India and non-India cricket matches to global spectacles featuring Indian talents, like the Chess World Cup final featuring Praggnanandhaa and the Badminton World Championships semifinal featuring HS Prannoy, our live coverage extends to all mega sporting events. We extensively cover events like the Olympics, Asian Games, Cricket World Cups, FIFA World Cups, and more. 

The desk is also adept at writing comprehensive match reports and insightful post-match commentary, complemented by stats-based articles that provide an in-depth analysis of player performances and team dynamics. 

We track news wires for key stories, conduct exclusive player interviews in both text and video formats, and file content from print editions and reporters. We keep track of all viral stories, trending topics and produce our own copies on the subjects. 

We deliver accurate, engaging, and up-to-the-minute sports content, round the clock.Read More

