https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/gadgets-news/you-can-now-watch-ayodhya-ram-mandir-morning-aarti-live-daily/articleshow/108461881.cms

You can now watch Ayodhya Ram Mandir morning Aarti live daily

Doordarshan will telecast live the Mangala, Shringaar, Rajbhog, Sandhya, and Shayan Aartis offered to the Ram Lalla idol at the Ayodhya Ram temple on DD National, connecting devotees who can't visit the temple.

Doordarshan will telecast live the Mangala, Shringaar, Rajbhog, Sandhya, and Shayan Aartis offered to the Ram Lalla idol at the Ayodhya Ram temple on DD National, connecting devotees who can't visit the temple. National broadcaster Doordarshan has good news for Lord Ram Devotees. Doordarshan has announced that it will telecast live the morning prayers offered to the Ram Lalla idol at the Ram Temple in Ayodhya every day.Doordarshan has shared the same in a post on X, formerly Twitter. Doordarshan said that the morning aarti offered to Ram Lalla will be telecast live on DD National every morning from 6:30 am.The national broadcaster said that the decision to telecast the morning aarti live every day was taken with the aim of connecting devotees of Lord Ram, especially after the temple was inaugurated less than two months ago in a grand ceremony and everyone can't visit the temple in person. The Aarti will be telecast simultaneously on DD’s YouTube channel also.Secondly, the decision was taken because the Trust doesn’t have logistical arrangements as of now for a live broadcast. Therefore, DD will be posting a two-three-member crew on the temple premises for the coverage of the daily ritual.DD's announcement to telecast the Aarti live for 30 minutes every morning comes after getting the go-ahead from the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust for the same. Initially, DD will air the “Mangala aarti” for a few months, and then, the Ram Temple Trust will take a call on how to take it forward.6 Aartis daily at the Ayodhya Ram templeThere are 6 aartis of Ram Lalla held daily in Ayodhya Ram temple. These include Mangala Aarti at 4:30 am, Shringaar Aarti at 6:30 am, Rajbhog Aarti at 12 noon, Utthapan Aarti at 2 pm, Sandhya Aarti at 7 pm, and Shayan Aarti at 10 pm.Giving directions to devotees for Aarti, the temple trust said, "Entry for Mangala Aarti at 4 AM, Shringar Aarti at 6:15 AM, and Shayan Aarti at 10 PM is possible only with an entry pass. No entry passes required for other Aartis."Shri Ram Janmbhoomi Teerth Kshetra trust advisory to devoteesIn an advisory to devotees coming for darshan at the temple, the Shri Ram Janmbhoomi Teerth Kshetra said, "Devotees can enter the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Mandir for Darshan from 6:30 AM to 9:30 PM. The entire process from entry to exit after Darshan at the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Mandir is extremely simple and convenient. Typically, devotees can have a smooth Darshan of Prabhu Shri Ram Lalla Sarkar within 60 to 75 minutes."The temple trust advised devotees to leave their mobile phones, footwear, purses and other personal items outside the Mandir premises for their convenience and to save time.It has also asked devotees not to bring flowers, garlands, Prasad to the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Mandir.About the AuthorTOI Tech DeskThe TOI Tech Desk is a dedicated team of journalists committed to delivering the latest and most relevant news from the world of technology to readers of The Times of India. TOI Tech Desk’s news coverage spans a wide spectrum across gadget launches, gadget reviews, trends, in-depth analysis, exclusive reports and breaking stories that impact technology and the digital universe. Be it how-tos or the latest happenings in AI, cybersecurity, personal gadgets, platforms like WhatsApp, Instagram, Facebook and more; TOI Tech Desk brings the news with accuracy and authenticity.Read More

