https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/world/us/watch-indian-truck-driver-brought-to-florida-for-trial-harjinder-singhs-deadly-u-turn-pauses-us-work-visas/articleshow/123446117.cms

Watch: Indian truck driver brought to Florida for trial - Harjinder Singh's deadly U-turn pauses US work visas

Harjinder Singh, an Indian-origin truck driver, was extradited from California to Florida to face vehicular homicide charges after a fatal U-turn resulted in three deaths. Following the incident, US Secretary of State Marco Rubio announced an immediate pause on all commercial truck driver work visas, citing safety concerns and the impact on American truckers' livelihoods. The move comes after Singh's reckless actions led to a tragic crash.

Harjinder Singh, an Indian-origin truck driver, was extradited from California to Florida to face vehicular homicide charges after a fatal U-turn resulted in three deaths. Following the incident, US Secretary of State Marco Rubio announced an immediate pause on all commercial truck driver work visas, citing safety concerns and the impact on American truckers' livelihoods. The move comes after Singh's reckless actions led to a tragic crash.  Indian-origin driver, Harjinder Singh, who is facing three counts of vehicular homicide for making a reckless U-turn at a Florida highway, killing three, was sent back to Sunshine State after fleeing to sanctuary state California. Later, US President Donald Trump's administration announced that it was halting all work visas for commercial drivers. Video of Singh, 28, has gone viral, where he is seen being loaded onto a plane in California on Thursday to fly him back to Flroida. Another video has circulated on social media, capturing Florida lieutenant governor Jay Collins escorting the illegal immigrant truck driver as he arrived back in the city to face charges.The Indian-origin trucker was arrested by the US Marshals in California after he fled the city following the August 12 crash. "We're here today because of tragedy," Collins told reporters as he was escorting Singh. "Three lives lost. Three Floridians' lives ended early."PollShould stricter regulations be imposed on commercial drivers to prevent reckless behavior?YesNoAfter Singh was brought back to Florida, US secretary of state Marco Rubio, within a few hours, announced a pause to all issuances of commercial truck driver work visas."The increasing number of foreign drivers operating large tractor-trailer trucks on US roads is endangering American lives and undercutting the livelihoods of American truckers," Rubio wrote on social media.He added that the pause was "effective immediately."All three people in the minivan died after it crashed into the truck as Singh made a reckless U-turn, leaving no space for the smaller vehicle to escape. About the AuthorTOI World DeskAt TOI World Desk, our dedicated team of seasoned journalists and passionate writers tirelessly sifts through the vast tapestry of global events to bring you the latest news and diverse perspectives round the clock. With an unwavering commitment to accuracy, depth, and timeliness, we strive to keep you informed about the ever-evolving world, delivering a nuanced understanding of international affairs to our readers. Join us on a journey across continents as we unravel the stories that shape our interconnected world.Read More

