https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/world/us/continue-to-pose-an-unreasonable-risk-erik-menendez-denied-parole-after-nearly-36-years-in-prison-for-parents-murders-misconduct-in-prison-cited/articleshow/123445045.cms

Erik Menendez denied parole after nearly 36 yrs in prison; misconduct behind bars cited

Erik Menendez was denied parole after California commissioners cited his continued misconduct behind bars, indicating he remains a public safety risk. Despite relatives' pleas for his release, the board highlighted repeated violations, including illegal phone use and drug smuggling. These actions demonstrated a selfish attitude and disregard for rules, outweighing the gravity of the original crime in their decision.

Erik Menendez was denied parole after California commissioners cited his continued misconduct behind bars, indicating he remains a public safety risk. Despite relatives' pleas for his release, the board highlighted repeated violations, including illegal phone use and drug smuggling. These actions demonstrated a selfish attitude and disregard for rules, outweighing the gravity of the original crime in their decision. Erik Menendez appears before the parole board via teleconference (Picture credit: AP) California parole commissioners have denied Erik Menendez’s request for release, saying his misconduct behind bars showed he remains a risk to public safety.The 54-year-old, who, along with his brother Lyle, murdered their parents Jose and Kitty Menendez, in 1989, faced his first parole hearing on Thursday. A two-member board ruled he will not be eligible again for another three years, as per news agency AP.Commissioner Robert Barton told him, “Contrary to your supporters’ beliefs, you have not been a model prisoner, and frankly, we find that a little disturbing.” He said repeated violations, particularly illegal use of mobile phones, showed a “selfish” attitude and belief that rules did not apply to him.According to ABC News, Barton noted that Erik’s behaviour in prison, including inappropriate contact with visitors, drug smuggling, misuse of computers and violent incidents, was the primary reason for the decision, rather than the gravity of the crime. “We find that you continue to pose an unreasonable risk to public safety,” he said, as quoted by ABC News.The hearing, which lasted nearly 10 hours, came 36 years and one day after the killings. “Today is the day all my victims learned my parents were dead,” Erik told the panel. Relatives, many of whom have forgiven him, gave emotional statements urging his release. His aunt Teresita Menendez-Baralt, battling cancer, said, “More than anything, I hope I live long enough to welcome him into my home.”Erik and Lyle Menendez were sentenced to life without parole in 1996, but a judge in May resentenced them to 50 years to life, making them immediately eligible under youth offender laws.Los Angeles County district attorney Nathan Hochman opposed parole, arguing the brothers “have not demonstrated full insight into their crimes.” According to AP, he compared them to Sirhan Sirhan, the assassin of Robert F Kennedy, who was also denied release over lack of insight.Lyle Menendez, now 57, is due for his parole hearing on Friday.About the AuthorTOI World DeskAt TOI World Desk, our dedicated team of seasoned journalists and passionate writers tirelessly sifts through the vast tapestry of global events to bring you the latest news and diverse perspectives round the clock. With an unwavering commitment to accuracy, depth, and timeliness, we strive to keep you informed about the ever-evolving world, delivering a nuanced understanding of international affairs to our readers. Join us on a journey across continents as we unravel the stories that shape our interconnected world.Read More

