https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/world/china/china-tragedy-under-construction-brige-collapses-into-yellow-river-10-dead-4-missing/articleshow/123451361.cms

China tragedy: Under construction brige collapses into Yellow river; 10 dead, 4 missing

A bridge under construction over the Yellow River in northwest China collapsed on Friday due to a steel cable failure, resulting in at least ten fatalities and four missing individuals. The incident occurred on the Sichuan–Qinghai Railway project, recognized as the world’s largest-span double-track continuous steel truss arch bridge.

A bridge under construction over the Yellow River in northwest China collapsed on Friday due to a steel cable failure, resulting in at least ten fatalities and four missing individuals. The incident occurred on the Sichuan–Qinghai Railway project, recognized as the world’s largest-span double-track continuous steel truss arch bridge.  At least 12 workers have died and four others are missing after an under construction bridge collapsed into the Yellow River in northwest China on Friday, state media said.Footage aired by state broadcaster CCTV captured the moment the arch section of the bridge gave way and crashed into the waters below. According to state news agency Xinhua, the disaster was triggered by a steel cable failure.The People’s Daily reported that 16 people: 15 workers and a project manager had been on site when the structure gave way. CCTV confirmed that ten people were killed, while two others were seriously injured at first and died later. Four people have yet to be found, AFP reported.The bridge, part of the Sichuan–Qinghai Railway, has been hailed as the world’s largest-span double-track continuous steel truss arch bridge. It is also the first railway steel truss arch bridge in China to cross the Yellow River, the country’s second-longest river.Pictures shared by state media showed the broken frame of the unfinished bridge, its middle section missing, with cranes and tall scaffolding towers standing around the site.Hundreds of emergency responders were dispatched to join search and rescue efforts, Xinhua said.Accidents of this kind are not uncommon in China, where enforcement of safety rules is often weak. In December last year, 13 workers went missing after a cave-in at a railway construction site in the southern city of Shenzhen. No survivors were reported.About the AuthorTOI World DeskAt TOI World Desk, our dedicated team of seasoned journalists and passionate writers tirelessly sifts through the vast tapestry of global events to bring you the latest news and diverse perspectives round the clock. With an unwavering commitment to accuracy, depth, and timeliness, we strive to keep you informed about the ever-evolving world, delivering a nuanced understanding of international affairs to our readers. Join us on a journey across continents as we unravel the stories that shape our interconnected world.Read More

