https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/world/us/free-tina-peters-donald-trump-renews-calls-to-free-convicted-colorado-official-threatens-harsh-measures-if-not-released/articleshow/123449079.cms

'Free Tina Peters': Donald Trump renews calls to free convicted Colorado official; threatens ‘harsh measures’ if not released



'Free Tina Peters': Donald Trump renews calls to free convicted Colorado official; threatens ‘harsh measures’ if not releasedTOI World Desk / TIMESOFINDIA.COM /  Aug 22, 2025, 17:00 ISTShareAA+Text SizeSmallMediumLarge Donald Trump renews calls to free Tina Peters; threatens ‘harsh measures’ if not released President Donald Trump on Thursday renewed his demand to free Tina Peters, a former county clerk convicted for breaching election equipment in 2020 presidential election. He warned that “harsh measures” would follow if she was not released. “FREE TINA PETERS, a brave and innocent Patriot who has been tortured by Crooked Colorado politicians, including the big Mail-In Ballot supporting governor of the State,” Trump wrote on Truth Social. “Let Tina Peters out of jail, RIGHT NOW.” Peters, 69, was found guilty by a Colorado jury in 2024 on seven charges, including four felonies, for tampering with Mesa County’s voting machines. She was sentenced in October to nine years in prison for attempting to influence a public servant, conspiracy to commit criminal impersonation and official misconduct. The former Mesa County clerk became a prominent figure among election deniers after she facilitated access to voting systems in search of voter fraud, claims that she and her allies failed to substantiate. She was the first election official charged in connection with a security breach linked to conspiracy theories surrounding the 2020 presidential election. Trump has repeatedly backed Peters, asking the Justice Department in May to intervene on her behalf. This is his second public appeal in recent months for her release. However, Peters was convicted in a Colorado state court, beyond the scope of presidential clemency powers. The president has used her case to intensify attacks on mail-in ballots and to push for sweeping election changes. In March, he signed an executive order requiring proof of citizenship for voter registration and has indicated plans for another order curbing mail-in voting.About the AuthorTOI World DeskAt TOI World Desk, our dedicated team of seasoned journalists and passionate writers tirelessly sifts through the vast tapestry of global events to bring you the latest news and diverse perspectives round the clock. With an unwavering commitment to accuracy, depth, and timeliness, we strive to keep you informed about the ever-evolving world, delivering a nuanced understanding of international affairs to our readers. Join us on a journey across continents as we unravel the stories that shape our interconnected world.Read More

