https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/world/pakistan/watch-floods-batter-pakistan-homes-swamped-roads-submerged/articleshow/123355040.cms

Watch: Floods batter Pakistan; homes swamped, roads submerged

Devastating flash floods in Pakistan have claimed at least 657 lives, including many children, with Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province being the hardest hit. Entire villages have been wiped out, mass burials are underway, and hundreds remain missing as rescue efforts continue amidst warnings of more torrential rains. The scale of destruction is immense, with eyewitnesses recounting homes and vehicles swept away.

Devastating flash floods in Pakistan have claimed at least 657 lives, including many children, with Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province being the hardest hit. Entire villages have been wiped out, mass burials are underway, and hundreds remain missing as rescue efforts continue amidst warnings of more torrential rains. The scale of destruction is immense, with eyewitnesses recounting homes and vehicles swept away.  NEW DELHI: Entire villages have been wiped out and mass burials are taking place as flash floods wreak havoc across Pakistan, leaving at least 340 people dead and hundreds missing, news agency AFP reported. Officials and eyewitnesses described scenes of large-scale devastation, with homes, shops and vehicles swept away in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KP) province, the hardest-hit region.Meanwhile, Pakistan’s Prime Minister’s coordinator for KP affairs, Ikhtiar Wali Khan, warned the real toll could be far higher. “Entire villages have been wiped out. In Buner's Chagharzi area, massive destruction has taken place, while the village of Bashoni has completely disappeared from the map,” he told ARY News. Expressing fear that deaths in Dir alone could exceed 1,000, he added, “Mass burials are taking place. I have returned from Buner with a heavy heart after witnessing this disaster with my own eyes.”According to Pakistan’s National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), torrential monsoon rains, flash floods, and landslides since June 26 have killed at least 657 people, including 171 children and 94 women, and injured 929. KP province alone has reported 390 deaths.PollShould international aid be prioritized for the flood victims in Pakistan?Yes, immediate aid is essentialNo, local resources should be utilized firstRescue workers continue to search for survivors, but officials admit hopes are fading. In Buner district, more than 150 people remain missing, with “10 to 12 entire villages” partially buried, according to local authorities. “The chances of those buried under the debris surviving are very slim,” said Bilal Ahmad Faizi of KP’s rescue agency.Eyewitnesses recalled the horror as floodwaters swept away everything in their path. “We saw all the houses, buildings, and vehicles being swept away like pieces of wood. When we looked down from the mountain, our home was gone,” said Suleman Khan, a schoolteacher who lost 25 relatives in Buner.Officials say the devastation is on par with past climate disasters in Pakistan. The government has declared several mountainous districts disaster-hit, while warnings of more torrential rains in the coming days raise fears of further destruction.About the AuthorTOI News DeskThe TOI News Desk comprises a dedicated and tireless team of journalists who operate around the clock to deliver the most current and comprehensive news and updates to the readers of The Times of India worldwide. With an unwavering commitment to excellence in journalism, our team is at the forefront of gathering, verifying, and presenting breaking news, in-depth analysis, and insightful reports on a wide range of topics. The TOI News Desk is your trusted source for staying informed and connected to the ever-evolving global landscape, ensuring that our readers are equipped with the latest developments that matter most."Read More

