https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/bill-to-remove-jailed-cm-pm-ministers-tmc-terms-jpc-a-farce-wont-nominate-anyone-for-committee/articleshow/123469117.cms

Bill to remove jailed CM, PM, ministers: TMC terms JPC a 'farce'; won't nominate anyone for committee

All India Trinamool Congress criticized the Joint Parliament Committee. The party declared it would not nominate anyone. This decision relates to bills concerning the removal of the Prime Minister and Chief Ministers. The bills were sent to the JPC after introduction in Lok Sabha. The party opposes the constitutional amendment bill. Tensions rose in Lok Sabha during the bill's introduction.

All India Trinamool Congress criticized the Joint Parliament Committee. The party declared it would not nominate anyone. This decision relates to bills concerning the removal of the Prime Minister and Chief Ministers. The bills were sent to the JPC after introduction in Lok Sabha. The party opposes the constitutional amendment bill. Tensions rose in Lok Sabha during the bill's introduction.  NEW DELHI: All India Trinamool Congress on Sunday called the Joint Parliament Committee "a farce" and said it will not nominate anyone to the JPC, which is formed to look into the three bills that lay down the framework for the removal of the prime minister and chief ministers.Earlier, the House passed the proposal of Union and home minister Amit Shah to send the Government of Union Territories (Amendment) Bill 2025, the Constitution (One Hundred And Thirtieth Amendment) Bill 2025, and the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation (Amendment) Bill 2025, to the JPC after it were introduced in Lok Sabha on Wednesday.Corruption, Lawlessness, Infiltration: PM Modi Attacks Mamata Govt In Bengal Rally | TMC | BJP"We oppose the 130th constitution amendment Bill at the stage of introduction, and in our view the JPC is a farce. Therefore, we are not nominating anyone from AITC," the Trinamool Congress said in a statement, PTI reported.The proposed legislations establish a legal framework for the removal of the Prime Minister, chief ministers, and ministers following their arrest for 30 consecutive days on serious charges. The introduction of the bills just before the conclusion of the Monsoon Session provoked strong opposition. In Lok Sabha, tensions escalated as copies of the bills were torn and thrown, with members from both ruling and opposition parties confronting each other when Union home minister Amit Shah proceeded to present the bills. TMC MPs charged towards Shah during the introduction of the three draft laws. Both Houses have passed a resolution to refer the bills to the JPC, which comprises 21 members from Lok Sabha and 10 from Rajya Sabha. The committee is tasked with submitting its report to the House during the Winter Session, anticipated to be held in the third week of November.About the AuthorTOI World DeskAt TOI World Desk, our dedicated team of seasoned journalists and passionate writers tirelessly sifts through the vast tapestry of global events to bring you the latest news and diverse perspectives round the clock. With an unwavering commitment to accuracy, depth, and timeliness, we strive to keep you informed about the ever-evolving world, delivering a nuanced understanding of international affairs to our readers. Join us on a journey across continents as we unravel the stories that shape our interconnected world.Read More

