https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/sir-row-amartya-sen-raises-concern-over-revision-claims-it-risks-disenfranchising-poor-people/articleshow/123465728.cms

SIR row: Amartya Sen raises concern over revision; claims it risks 'disenfranchising' poor people

Amartya Sen voiced concerns that Bihar's electoral roll revision could disenfranchise the poor due to strict documentation requirements. The Supreme Court questioned the lack of political party involvement in correcting voter deletions during the revision. The court allowed online claim submissions with Aadhaar or other documents, seeking status reports from political parties by September 8.

Amartya Sen voiced concerns that Bihar's electoral roll revision could disenfranchise the poor due to strict documentation requirements. The Supreme Court questioned the lack of political party involvement in correcting voter deletions during the revision. The court allowed online claim submissions with Aadhaar or other documents, seeking status reports from political parties by September 8. Amartya Sen NEW DELHI: Nobel laureate Amartya Sen raised concerns over the special intensive revision (SIR) of electoral rolls in poll-bound Bihar, cautioning that without sensitivity, the exercise could “disenfranchise” large sections of the poor and marginalised. He questioned the fairness of a bureaucratic process that requires strict documentation from citizens who may not have easy access to such papers. Bihar SIR: SC Slams Political Parties’ Silence, Directs Poll Panel To Accept Aadhaar Or 11 DocumentsWhile acknowledging the need for administrative checks and periodic revisions, Sen stressed these must not come at the expense of fundamental rights."Yes, it's true that from time to time various procedural tasks need to be carried out. However, in doing so, one cannot create a 'better system' by trampling on the rights of the poor," Sen told news agency PTI.He emphasised the importance of a just and inclusive approach, pointing out that many individuals still lack proper documentation and, as a result, are often excluded from the electoral process."Many people don't have documents. Many cannot vote. If, in the name of trying to improve things a little, harm is caused to many, then that becomes a serious mistake," Sen said, adding, "You cannot justify seven new mistakes just to correct one".Meanwhile, the Supreme Court on Friday expressed surprise at the lack of political parties' involvement in correcting names of voters deleted during the SIR of the electoral rolls in Bihar. The top court also said that claim forms can be submitted along with Aadhaar card or any other 11 acceptable documents. "We will allow online submission of claims of deleted voters with Aadhaar card or any other acceptable documents for Bihar SIR," the bench said, as quoted by PTI. "All the political parties shall file the status report by the next date of hearing on the claim form they had facilitated in filing by excluded voters," the bench added. The matter has been posted for hearing on September 8. During the hearing, the Election Commission informed the court that while 85,000 new voters had been added in the ongoing revision, only two objections had been filed by booth-level agents of political parties. A bench of Justices Surya Kant and Joymalya Bagchi was hearing a batch of petitions challenging the SIR exercise. The petitions were filed by RJD MP Manoj Jha, the Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR), PUCL, activist Yogendra Yadav, Trinamool Congress MP Mahua Moitra and former Bihar MLA Mujahid Alam. The petitioners have sought to quash the ECI’s June 24 directive, which requires large numbers of voters in Bihar to submit proof of citizenship to stay on the rolls.About the AuthorTOI News DeskThe TOI News Desk comprises a dedicated and tireless team of journalists who operate around the clock to deliver the most current and comprehensive news and updates to the readers of The Times of India worldwide. With an unwavering commitment to excellence in journalism, our team is at the forefront of gathering, verifying, and presenting breaking news, in-depth analysis, and insightful reports on a wide range of topics. The TOI News Desk is your trusted source for staying informed and connected to the ever-evolving global landscape, ensuring that our readers are equipped with the latest developments that matter most."Read More

