https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/we-have-reached-moon-and-mars-pm-modi-greets-the-nation-on-national-space-day-recalls-meeting-with-shubhanshu-shukla/articleshow/123466876.cms

'We have reached Moon and Mars': PM Modi greets the nation on National Space Day; recalls meeting with Shubhanshu Shukla

Prime Minister Modi addressed the nation on National Space Day, celebrating India's space achievements and the accomplishments of its scientists and astronauts. He emphasized India's rapid progress in space technology, including the development of semi-cryogenic engines.

Prime Minister Modi addressed the nation on National Space Day, celebrating India's space achievements and the accomplishments of its scientists and astronauts. He emphasized India's rapid progress in space technology, including the development of semi-cryogenic engines.  NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday addressed the nation on the occasion of National Space Day, greeting citizens and lauding the achievements of India’s scientists, space startups and astronaut Shubhanshu Shukla. Declaring that India is moving forward with great speed in the global space race, PM Modi said, “Today India is rapidly progressing in breakthrough technologies like semi-cryogenic engine and electric propulsion.”The Prime Minister recalled his recent meeting with Group Captain Shubhanshu Shukla, who earlier this month hoisted the tricolour aboard the International Space Station. “He filled every Indian with pride by hoisting the tricolour on the International Space Station. The moment, the feeling when he was showing me the tricolour, is beyond words. In my discussion with Group Captain Shubhanshu, I have seen the immense courage and infinite dreams of the youth of the new India. To take these dreams forward, we are also going to prepare India's astronaut pool. Today on Space Day, I invite my young friends to join this astronaut pool to give wings to India's dreams,” PM Modi said.We have reached Moon and Mars, and we have to take a peek in deep space, he added.PollWhich excites you more about India’s space journey?Achievements in space missionsOpportunities for youth and startupsThe Prime Minister also urged private players to strengthen their role in space research and innovation. “On August 15, I mentioned several sectors where India must become self-reliant. On Space Day today, I want to tell the country’s space startups that in the next five years, we can create five unicorns in the space sector. Currently, India carries out around 5–6 major launches annually from its soil. I want the private sector to step forward so that in the next five years, we are able to see 50 rocket launches in a year, that means one every week.”The Prime Minister underlined India’s growing position as a leader in the field, pointing to its recent achievements. “We have also become the fourth country in the world to have the capability of docking and undocking in space,” he said, stressing that “achieving new milestones one after another in the space sector has become the nature of India and Indian scientists.” He noted that just two years ago, India became the first nation to land on the South Pole of the Moon with Chandrayaan-3.He also highlighted India’s role in inspiring young minds, citing the International Olympiad on Astronomy and Astrophysics, recently hosted in India with participants from more than 60 countries. “Indian youth also won medals. This Olympiad is a symbol of India's emerging leadership in the space sector. I am happy that ISRO has also taken initiatives like Indian Space Hackathon and Robotics Challenge to increase the interest of young friends towards space,” PM Modi said.The occasion marks the second National Space Day, established by PM Modi after the successful Chandrayaan-3 landing on August 23, 2023. The theme for 2025, “Aryabhatta to Gaganyaan: Ancient Wisdom to Infinite Possibilities,” reflects India’s journey from ancient astronomical traditions to the frontiers of human spaceflight.About the AuthorTOI News DeskThe TOI News Desk comprises a dedicated and tireless team of journalists who operate around the clock to deliver the most current and comprehensive news and updates to the readers of The Times of India worldwide. With an unwavering commitment to excellence in journalism, our team is at the forefront of gathering, verifying, and presenting breaking news, in-depth analysis, and insightful reports on a wide range of topics. The TOI News Desk is your trusted source for staying informed and connected to the ever-evolving global landscape, ensuring that our readers are equipped with the latest developments that matter most."Read More

