https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/gadgets-news/twitter-bans-over-5-lakh-accounts-in-india-heres-why/articleshow/108438736.cms

Twitter bans over 5 lakh accounts in India, here's why

Elon Musk's X platform banned over 5 lakh Indian accounts for violating policies, including promoting terrorism and child sexual exploitation. Users should avoid violating policies to prevent account suspension.

Elon Musk's X platform banned over 5 lakh Indian accounts for violating policies, including promoting terrorism and child sexual exploitation. Users should avoid violating policies to prevent account suspension. Elon Musk’s social media platform, X (formerly Twitter), has banned over 5 lakh accounts in India. Reuters has reported that these accounts were banned for violating several policies set by social media platforms and these accounts have been banned between January 26 and February 25. Total X accounts banned in FebruaryAccording to the report, the social media platform has banned 5,06,173 accounts for promoting child sexual exploitation and non-consensual nudity. In addition to this, the platform suspended 1,982 accounts for promoting terrorism. Combining both, X has banned a total of 5,08,155 accounts during the said period in India. Also, the platform has received around 14,421 complaints from Indian users through its grievance redressal mechanisms. Moreover, around 41 requests have been raised regarding account suspensions. The company mentioned in its "We overturned 1 of these account suspensions after reviewing the specifics of the situation. The remaining reported accounts remain suspended," said the company."We received 71 requests related to general questions about accounts during this reporting period," it added.This is not a new practice for X to ban accounts for violating the policy. Between December 26 and January 25, the platform banned around 2,31, 215 accounts in India. In the same period, the company banned 1,945 accounts for promoting terrorism on its platform. Tips to prevent X account from getting bannedTo prevent X from taking down your account, avoid violating the policies set by the platform. Prevent posting from child sexual exploitation and non-consensual nudity. About the AuthorTOI Tech DeskThe TOI Tech Desk is a dedicated team of journalists committed to delivering the latest and most relevant news from the world of technology to readers of The Times of India. TOI Tech Desk’s news coverage spans a wide spectrum across gadget launches, gadget reviews, trends, in-depth analysis, exclusive reports and breaking stories that impact technology and the digital universe. Be it how-tos or the latest happenings in AI, cybersecurity, personal gadgets, platforms like WhatsApp, Instagram, Facebook and more; TOI Tech Desk brings the news with accuracy and authenticity.Read More

